•

HADDR_out[31:27] gets REMAPADDR[31:27] (in place of HADDR_in[31:27])

•

HADDR_out[26:0] gets HADDR_in[26:0]

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Instruction cache (ICACHE)
The software can program the kind of AHB burst that is generated by the ICACHE master
ports on the bus matrix (for cache line refill), by setting HBURST in ICACHE_CRRx with:
•

•

WRAP for remapped external memories accessed through interfaces that can support
WRAP burst mode, providing the benefit of the critical-word-first feature performance:
–

WRAP burst size = cache line size

–

WRAP burst start address = word address of the first data requested by the core

INCR: INCR burst mode for external memories accessed through the interfaces that do
not support WRAP burst mode (losing the benefit of critical-word-first feature):
–

INCR burst size = cache line size

–

INCR burst start address = address aligned on the boundary of the cache line
containing the requested word.

Note:

Coherency is needed when programming the SAU (secure attribution unit) and the MPU
(memory protection unit) attributes for both the external regions and their aliased code
subregions.

8.4.8

Cacheable accesses
When the ICACHE receives a cacheable transaction from the Cortex®-M33, the ICACHE
checks if the address requested is present in its TAG memory, and if the corresponding
cache line is valid.
There are then three alternatives:
•

The address is present inside the TAG memory, the cache line is valid: cache hit, the
data is read from the cache and provided to the processor in the same cycle.

•

The address is not present in the TAG memory: cache miss, the data is read from
the main memory and provided to the processor, and a cache line refill is performed.
The critical-word-first policy ensures minimum wait cycles for the processor, since read
data can be provided while the cache still performs a cache line refill (associated
latency is the latency of fetching one word from the main memory).
The burst generated on the ICACHE master bus is WRAPw (w being the cache line
width, in words) in case no address remap occurs. If an address remap occurs, the kind
of burst depends on the HBURST programmed in corresponding ICACHE_CRRx.
The AHB transaction attributes are also propagated to the main AHB bus matrix on the
master port selected for the line refill.

•

The address is not present in TAG memory, but belongs to the refill burst from the main
memory currently ongoing: cache hit (hit-under-miss feature).
This happens during cache-line refill. The ICACHE can provide the requested data as
soon as the data is available at its master interface, thus avoiding a miss (fetching data
from the main memory).

In the case of cache refill (due to cache miss), the ICACHE selects which cache line is
written with the refill data:
•

In direct map (1-way) mode, only one line can be used to store the refill data: the line
pointed by the index of the input address.

•

In n-way set associative mode, one line among n can be used (the line pointed by the
address index, in each of the n ways). The way selection is based on a pLRU-t
replacement algorithm that points, for each index, on the way candidate for the next
refill.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

