RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

11.4.6

Reset and clock control (RCC)

PLL
The RCC features three PLLs:
•

a main PLL, PLL1, that is generally used to provide clocks to the CPU and
to some peripherals

•

two dedicated PLL2 and PLL3 that are used to generate the kernel clock
for peripherals

The PLLs integrated into the RCC are completely independent. They offer the following
features:
•

Input frequency range: 4 to 16 MHz

•

Capability to work either in integer or fractional mode

•

13-bit sigma-delta (Σ∆) modulator, allowing to fine-tune the VCO frequency by steps
of 11 to 0.3 ppm

•

The Σ∆ modulator can be updated on-the-fly, without generating frequency overshoots
on PLLs outputs.

•

Each PLL offers three outputs with post-dividers.

The PLLs are controlled via RCC_PLLxDIVR, RCC_PLLxFRACR, RCC_PLLxCFGR, and
RCC_CR (x = 1, 2, 3).
The frequency of the reference clock provided to the PLLs (refx_ck) must range
from 4 to 16 MHz. The user application must program properly the PLLxM (x = 1, 2, 3)
dividers in RCC_PLL1CFGR), RCC_PLL2CFGR, and RCC_PLL3CFGR, in order to match
this condition. In addition, PLLxRGE must be set according to the reference input frequency
to guarantee an optimal performance of the PLL.
To reduce the power consumption, it is recommended to configure the VCOx output to
the lowest frequency.
Figure 41. PLL block diagram
PLLx
PLLxRGE
UHI[BFN

128 to 544 MHz

4 to 16 MHz
3)'&3

LPF

VCO

PLLxP
vcox_ck
PLLxPEN

·2

SOO[BSBFN

PLLxQ

PLLxN

PLLxQEN

·2

PLLxREN

·2

SOO[BTBFN

PLLxR
·«129«

SOO[BUBFN

Ȉǻ0RGXODWRU
PLLxFRACEN

6+B5(*

PLLxFRACN
MSv65658V2

PLLxN loop divider must be programmed to achieve the expected frequency at VCO output.
In addition, the VCO output range must be respected.
The PLLx operates in integer mode when PLLxFRACEN is 0, and the PLL is enabled with
PLLxON. The fractional mode can be enabled at any time by setting PLL1FRACN to the

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

609

Reset and clock control (RCC)

RM0456

required value, and subsequently setting PLLxFRACEN from 0 to 1. The ∑∆ modulator is
designed to minimize the jitter impact while allowing very small step frequency adjustments.
To update the fractional value, first set PLLxFRACEN to 0 before updating the PLLxFRACN
value, and subsequently set PLLxFRACEN to 1. The old PLLxFRACN value is kept used
until the new value is activated by setting PLLxFRACEN from 0 to 1. PLLxFRACN must only
be updated by software when PLLxFRACEN is 0.
The PLLs can be enabled by setting PLLxON = 1 in RCC_CR. The PLLxRDY bit indicates
that the PLL is ready (meaning locked).
Note:

Before enabling the PLLs, make sure that the reference frequency (refx_ck) provided to the
PLL is stable. The following PLLx parameters cannot be changed once the PLLx is enabled:
PLLxSRC, PLLxN, PLLxRGE, PLLxP, PLLxQ, and PLLxR.
The hardware prevents writing PLL1ON to 0 if the PLL1 is currently used to deliver
the system clock.
The following PLL parameters cannot be changed once the PLL is enabled: PLLxN,
PLLxRGE, PLLxP, PLLxQ, and PLLxR.
To ensure an optimal behavior of the PLL when one of the post-dividers (PLLxP, PLLxQ, or
PLLxR) is not used, the application must clear the enable bit (PLLxPEN, PLLxQEN,
PLLxREN), and configure the corresponding post-dividers to their minimum value
(PLLxR = 0, PLLxP = 0, or PLLxQ = 0).
If the above rules are not respected, the PLL output frequency is not guaranteed.

Output frequency computation
When the PLL operates in integer mode (SH_REG = 0), the VCO frequency (FVCO) is given
by the following formula (x = 1, 2, 3):
F VCO x = F refx _ck × PLLx N
When the PLL operates in fractional mode (SH_REG ≠ 0), the PLLxN divider must be
initialized before enabling the PLLs. However, the PLLxFRACN value can be changed
on-the-fly without disturbing the PLL output.
This feature can be used either to generate a specific frequency from any crystal value with
a good accuracy, or to fine-tune the frequency on-the-fly.
For each PLL, the VCO frequency is given by the following formula:

⎛
PLLxFRACN⎞
F VCO x = F refx_ck × ⎜ PLLxN + ------------------------------------⎟
( 13 )
⎝
⎠
2

For both integer and fractional mode, the PLL1 output frequency is given by the following
formula:

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Reset and clock control (RCC)

F pll x_y_ck = ( F VCO x ⁄ ( PLLxy + 1 ) ) with y = P, Q or R
The PLLs are disabled by hardware:
•

when the system enters Stop or Standby mode

•

when an HSE failure occurs, when HSE or PLL (clocked by HSE) are used
as system clock

The fractional information used by the PLL is reset when disabling the PLL.

PLL initialization phase
The following PLL initialization sequence in integer and fractional mode is recommended.
The PLLx are supposed to be disabled at the start of the initialization sequence:
1.

Initialize the PLLs registers according to the required frequency.
–

For integer mode, set PLLxFRACEN to 0 in RCC_PLL1CFGR, RCC_PLL2CFGR,
and RCC_PLL3CFGR.

–

For fractional mode, set PLLxFRACN to the required initial value (FracInitValue),
and then set PLLxFRACEN = 1.

2.

Once PLLxON = 1, the application must wait until PLLxRDY = 1. As long as
PLLxRDY = 0, PLLxFRACEN must not be altered.

3.

Once PLLxRDY = 1, the PLLx is ready to be used.

4.

If the application intends to tune the PLLx frequency on-the-fly, then:
a)

PLLxFRACEN must be set to 0 to update the PLLxFRACN value while keeping
the PLL running.

b)

Wait at least 3 periods of the PLL reference clock (refx_ck).

c)

A new value can be uploaded into PLLxFRACN (FracValue(n).

d)

PLLxFRACEN must be set to 1 to activate the new programed value in
PLLxFRACN that is taken into account by the PLL.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

