RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Peripherals interconnect matrix

Active power mode
This interconnection remains active down to Stop 2 mode.

16.3.9

Blanking sources to comparators
From timers (TIM1/2/3/4/5/8/15/16/17) to comparators (COMP1/2)

Purpose
Advanced-control timers (TIM1/8) and general-purpose timers (TIM2/3/4/5/15/16/17) can be
used as blanking window input to COMP1/2.
The blanking function is described in Section 37.4.6: Comparator output-blanking function.
The blanking sources are given in:
•

COMP1 control and status register (COMP1_CSR), BLANKSEL[4:0]

•

COMP2 control and status register (COMP2_CSR), BLANKSEL[4:0]

Triggering signals
Timer output signal TIMx_Ocx are the inputs to blanking source of COMP1/2.

Active power mode
This feature is available under Run and Sleep modes.

16.3.10

RTC wake-up as inputs to timers
From RTC to timers (TIM5/16/17)

Purpose
RTC wake-up interrupt can be used as input to general-purpose timers (TIM5/16/17)
channel 1.

Triggering signals
RTC wake-up signal is connected to tim_ti1_in3 signal as described in Table 559:
Interconnect to the tim_ti1 input multiplexer for TIM5.
RTC wake-up signal is connected to tim_ti1_in4 signal as described in Table 578:
Interconnect to the tim_ti1 input multiplexer for TIM16/TIM17.

Active power mode
This interconnection is active down to Stop 3 mode. Timers are not active but the count is
performed at wake-up.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

684

Peripherals interconnect matrix

16.3.11

RM0456

OTG_FS/OTG_HS SOF as trigger to timers
From OTG_FS/OTG_HS SOF to TIM2

Purpose
The OTG_FS/OTG_HS SOF (start-of-frame) can generate a trigger to the general-purpose
timer TIM2. The OTG_FS/OTG_HS connection to TIM2 is described in Table 563: TIMx
internal trigger connection.

Triggering signals
The tim_itr11 internal signal is generated by the OTG_FS/OTG_HS SOF.

Active power mode
This interconnection is active in Run and Sleep modes.

16.3.12

Comparators as inputs, trigger or break signals to timers
From comparators to timers (TIM1/2/3/4/5/8/15/16/17)

Purpose
The comparators (COMP1/2) output values can be connected to timers
(TIM1/2/3/4/5/8/15/16/17) input captures, TIMx_ETR or timer break signals. The connection
to ETR is described in Section 54.3.6: External trigger input.
Comparators (COMP1/2) output values can also generate break input signals for timers
(such as TIM1 or TIM8). The sources for break (tim_brk) channel are one of the following:
•

external: connected to one of the TIMx_BKIN pin (as per selection done in the AFIO
controller) with polarity selection and optional digital filtering

•

internal: coming from comparators, tim_brk_cmpx input (refer to Section 54.3.2:
TIM1/TIM8 pins and internal signals for product specific implementation).

Triggering signals
The tim_etr and tim_brk signals connected TIM1/8 (coming from COMP1/2) are given in:
•

tim_etr (Table 539: Interconnect to the tim_etr input multiplexer for
STM32U535/545/575/585): external trigger internal input bus
These inputs can be used as trigger, external clock or for hardware cycle-by-cycle
pulse width control.

•

tim_brk (Table 541: Timer break interconnect and Table 542: Timer break2
interconnect)

•

Section 54.3.6: External trigger input

•

Section 54.3.18: Using the break function

For TIM2/3/4/5, the sources connected to the tim_ti[1:4] input multiplexers coming from
comparators and some other peripherals, are given in:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

Table 559: Interconnect to the tim_ti1 input multiplexer

•

Table 560: Interconnect to the tim_ti2 input multiplexer

•

Table 562: Interconnect to the tim_ti4 input multiplexer

•

Table 539: Interconnect to the tim_etr input multiplexer for STM32U535/545/575/585

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Peripherals interconnect matrix
•

Table 540: Interconnect to the tim_etr input multiplex for STM2U59x/5Ax/5Fx/5Gx

•

Table 566: Interconnect to the tim_ocref_clr input multiplexer

•

Section 55.4.22: Timers and external trigger synchronization

•

TIMx timer input selection register (TIMx_TISEL)(x = 2 to 5)

For TIM15/16/17, the sources connected to timers coming from comparators and other
peripherals are given in:
•

Table 579: Interconnect to the tim_ti2 input multiplexer

•

Table 581: Timer break interconnect

•

Table 583: Interconnect to the ocref_clr input multiplexer

•

Section 56.4.15: Using the break function

•

Section 56.4.23: External trigger synchronization (TIM15 only)

Active power mode
Run, Sleep, and wake-up capability in Stop 0, Stop 1, and Stop 2 modes for trigger sources.
Input and break remain active in same low-power modes as timers activity, on Run and
Sleep modes.

16.3.13

System errors as break signals to timers
From system errors to timers (TIM1/8/15/16/17)

Purpose
CSS, CPU lockup, SRAM2/3 ECC double errors, FLASH ECC double-error detection and
PVD can generate system errors in the form of timer break toward timers (TIM1/8/15/16/17).
The purpose of the break function is to protect power switches driven by PWM signals
generated by the timers.

Triggering signals
The possible sources of break are described in:
•

Section 54.3.18: Using the break function for TIM1/8

•

Section 56.4.15: Using the break function for TIM15/16/17

•

Table 543: System break interconnect for TIM1/8

•

Table 582: System break interconnect for TIM15/16/17

Active power mode
Timers are optionally active in Run and Sleep modes. The effects of low-power modes on
TIMx are given in:

16.3.14

•

Table 552: Effect of low-power modes on TIM1/TIM8

•

Table 572: Effect of low-power modes on TIM2/TIM3/TIM4/TIM5

•

Table 587: Effect of low-power modes on TIM15/TIM16/TIM17

Timers generating IRTIM signal
From timers (TIM16/17) to IRTIM

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

684

Peripherals interconnect matrix

RM0456

The general-purpose timer (TIM16/17) output channels TIMx_OC1, are used to generate
the waveform of the infrared signal output.
This functionality is described in Section 60: Infrared interface (IRTIM).

16.3.15

Triggers for communication peripherals
From LP timers (LPTIM1/2/3), comparators (COMP1/2), GPDMA1 transfer complete,
LPDMA1 transfer complete, EXTI, RTC alarm and RTC wake-up to USART1/2/3/6,
UART4/5, LPUART1, I2C1/2/3/4/5/6, and SPI1/2/3.

Purpose
LP timer (LPTIM1//3) output channels (lptim1_ch1, lptim1_ch2 and lptim3_ch1), comparator
(COMP1/2) output channels (comp1_out and comp2_out), EXTI, RTC alarm and RTC
wake-up, can be used as trigger to start a communication on the selected USART, UART,
LPUART, I2C, or SPI peripheral.
A GPDMA1 transfer complete can trigger both the GPDMA1 regular or linked-list new
transfers and communication on selected communication peripheral.
A LPDMA1 transfer complete can trigger both the LPDMA1 new transfers and the
communication on selected peripheral.

Triggering signals
The outputs from triggers are directly connected to peripheral trigger inputs.
The selection of input triggers is detailed in:
•

Table 677: USART interconnection (USART1/2/3/6 and UART4/5)

•

Table 689: LPUART interconnections (LPUART1)

•

Table 657: I2C1, I2C2, I2C4, I2C5, I2C6 interconnection and Table 658: I2C3
interconnection

The outputs (from timer) are directly connected to SPI1/2/3 inputs on signals spi_itrx
(x = 6, 7). The selection of input triggers on SPI is provided in:
•

Table 699: SPI interconnection (SPI1 and SPI2)

•

Table 700: SPI interconnection (SPI3)

Active power mode
These interconnections remain active in Run, Sleep, and Stop modes if both source and
communication line are autonomous under the mode. Refer to:

16.3.16

•

Section 66.6: USART in low-power modes

•

Section 65.5: I2C in low-power modes

•

Section 68.6: SPI in low-power modes

Triggers to GPDMA/LPDMA
From EXTI, RTC (alarm/wake-up), TAMP (TAMP1/2/3), timers (TIM2/15), LP timers
(LPTIM1/3/4), comparators (COMP1/2), LP/GPDMA1 transfer complete
(gpdma1_chx_tc/lpdma1_chx_tc), ADC1/4 analog watchdog, and LTDC, DSI, DMA2D,
GPU2D, JPEG, to LPDMA1 and GPDMA1

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Peripherals interconnect matrix

Purpose
A LP/GPDMA trigger can be assigned to a LP/GPDMA channel x. A programmed
LP/GPDMA transfer can be triggered by a rising/falling edge of a selected input trigger
event. The trigger mode can also be programmed to condition the LLI link transfer. More
details are given in the sections below:
•

Section 18.3.5: LPDMA triggers and Section 17.3.5: GPDMA triggers

•

Section 18.4.12: LPDMA triggered transfer and Section 17.4.12: GPDMA triggered
transfer

•

LPDMA channel x transfer register 2 (LPDMA_CxTR2) and GPDMA channel x transfer
register 2 (GPDMA_CxTR2) for more details on:
–

Trigger selection TRIGSEL[5:0] field

–

Trigger mode (LLI) defined by TRIGM[1:0].

–

Trigger polarity as defined by TRIGPOL[1:0]

Triggering signals
LPDMA trigger mapping is specified in Table 151: Programmed LPDMA1 trigger, according
to LPDMA_CxTR2.TRIGSEL[5:0].
GPDMA trigger mapping is specified in Table 139: Programmed GPDMA1 trigger, according
to GPDMA_CxTR2.TRIGSEL[5:0].

Active power mode
Assuming sources are active down to Stop modes, this interconnection remains functional in
Stop 0 and Stop 1 modes for GPDMA, and Stop 0, Stop 1, and Stop 2 modes for LPDMA.
Refer to:

16.3.17

•

Section 18.6: LPDMA in low-power modes

•

Section 17.6: GPDMA in low-power modes

Internal analog signals to analog peripherals
From internal analog source to ADC (ADC1/2/4), comparators (COMP1/2) and OPAMP
(OPAMP1/2)

Purpose
The internal reference voltage (VREFINT), the internal temperature sensor (VTS), and VBAT
monitoring channel are connected to ADC (ADC1/2/4) input channels. In addition, the
internal digital core voltage (VCORE) is connected /to ADC1/2/4 input channels.
DAC channels (DAC1_OUT/DAC2_OUT) and VREFINT are connected to comparators
(COMP1/2).
OPAMP1/2 outputs can be connected to ADC1 or ADC4 input channels through the GPIO.
DAC1_OUT1 can be connected to OPAMP1_VINP. DAC1_OUT2 can be connected to
OPAMP2_VINP.
Refer to Table 342: DAC internal input/output signals for:
•

dac_out1 analog output DAC channel1, output, for on-chip peripherals

•

dac_out2 analog output DAC channel2, output, for on-chip peripherals

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

684

Peripherals interconnect matrix

RM0456

This is according to:
•

Section 33.2 and Section 34.2: ADC main features

•

Section 33.4.11: Channel selection (SQRx, JSQRx)

•

Table 364: Operational amplifier possible connections

•

Section 37.4.2: COMP pins and internal signals

Active power mode
These interconnections remain in Stop modes if the selected peripheral is kept active.
Refer to:

16.3.18

•

Section 34.5: ADC low-power modes

•

Section 37.5: COMP low-power modes

•

Section 38.4: OPAMP low-power modes

ADC data filtering by the MDF1
From ADC1/ADC2 to MDF1

Purpose
The MDF1 allows the connection of up to two ADCs to the filter path. For each filter, the
DATSRC[1:0] field in the MDF digital filter configuration register x (MDF_DFLTxCICR) is
used to select either data from the ADCs in:
•

Section 33.4.4: ADC connectivity

•

Table 373: MDF ADC data connections

•

•

–

mdf_adcitf1_dat[15:0] to adc1_dat

–

mdf_adcitf2_dat[15:0] to adc2_dat

Table 307: ADC1/ADC12 interconnection
–

adcx_dat[15:0] (x = 1) to mdf1_adcx_dat[15:0] for STM32U535/545/575/585

–

adcx_dat[15:0] (x = 1, 2) mdf1_adcx_dat[15:0] for STM32U59x/5Ax/5Fx/5Gx

Section 39.5: MDF low-power modes
–

Stop 0 and Stop 1 modes

Active power mode
This feature remains available down to Sleep mode.

16.3.19

Clock source for the DAC sample and hold mode
LSI/LSE to DAC1/2

Purpose
DAC1/2 can run in Stop mode. The sample and hold block and its associated registers use
the LSI or LSE clock source (dac_hold_ck) in Stop mode.
Table 342: DAC internal input/output signals:
dac_hold_ck, Input, DAC low-power clock used in sample and hold mode

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Peripherals interconnect matrix

Active power mode
This feature remains available down to Stop 2 mode.

16.3.20

Triggers from graphic interfaces to timers
From DCMI, LTDC, DSI to timers (TIM2/TIM3/TIM4/TIM5) (for STM32U59x/5Ax/5Fx/5Gx)
and GFXTIM (for STM32U5Fx/5Gx)

Purpose
DCMI, LTDC and DSI synchronization signals can be used as triggering event to start the
timers.

Triggering signals
The inputs (to DCMI, LTDC, and DSI) are directly connected to the timers (TIM2/3/4/5).
External trigger as described in Table 565: Interconnect to the tim_etr input multiplexer for
the STM32U59x/5Ax/5Fx/5Gx.
GFXTIM input trigger as described in Table 619: GFXTIM trigger interconnections.

Active power mode
This feature remains available down to Sleep mode. Refer to Section 68.6: SPI in low-power
modes.

16.3.21

Internal tamper sources
From internal peripherals, clocks or monitoring to tamper.

Purpose
In order to detect any abnormal activity or tentative to corrupt the device, tampers are
introduced and alert the system of such undesired event. Different actions can be taken in
consequences.
List of tamper sources can be found in Table 644: TAMP interconnection.

Active power mode
This interconnection is active in all power modes if the tamper source is activated.

16.3.22

Output from tamper to RTC
From TAMP to RTC
Purpose
The RTC can timestamp a tamper event in order to retrieve history in time of such detection.
The RTC can also control GPIOs and set a signal based on tamp or alarm status outside the
MCU.
Refer to section Section 63.3.3: GPIOs controlled by the RTC and TAMP for more details.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

684

Peripherals interconnect matrix

RM0456

Active power mode
This interconnection remains active in all power modes.

16.3.23

Encryption keys to AES/SAES
From TAMP backup registers, system flash memory to and in between SAES and AES

Purpose
The encryption mechanism requires an hardware key that must be stored in a protected
non-volatile memory. Different approaches are implemented in order to load them in a
non-readable way. Tamper backup registers or system flash memory can be used to store
respectively BHK or RHUK, and to implement a dedicated bus to pass it to the SAES.
Refer to Section 50.4.9: SAES operation with wrapped keys for more details.
The AES encryption mechanism (faster than the SAES) can benefit from the sharing key of
the SAES. Refer to Section 49.4.13: AES operation with shared keys for more details.

Active power mode
AES and SAES are operating under Run and Sleep modes.

<!-- pagebreak -->

