910

Chrom-GRC (GFXMMU)

RM0456

21.6

GFXMMU registers

21.6.1

GFXMMU configuration register (GFXMMU_CR)
Address offset: 0x0000
Reset value: 0x0000 0000

31

30

29

28

27

26

25

24

23

22

21

20

19

18

17

16

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

ACLB[1:0]

ACE

Res.

Res.

OB

OC

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

Res.

Res.

Res.

PD

FC

CLB[1:0]

CL

CE

192BM

Res.

AMEIE

B3OIE

B2OIE

B1OIE

B0OIE

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

Bits 31:23 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 22:21 ACLB[1:0]: Address cache lock buffer
This field selects the virtual buffer on which the address cache is active.
00: Address cache locked on buffer 0
01: Address cache locked on buffer 1
10: Address cache locked on buffer 2
11: Address cache locked on buffer 3
Bit 20 ACE: Address cache enable
This bit enables the GFXMMU address cache.
0: Address cache is disabled
1: Address cache is enabled
Bits 19:18 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 17 OB: Outter bufferability
This bit configure the bufferability of an access generated by the GFXMMU cache.
0: No bufferable
1: Bufferable
Bit 16 OC: Outter cachability
This bit configure the cachability of an access generated by the GFXMMU cache.
0: No cachable
1: Cachable
Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 12 PD: Prefetch disable
This bit disables the prefetch of the cache.
0: Prefetch enable
1: Prefetch disable
Bit 11 FC: Force caching
This bit force the caching into the cache regardless of the MPU attributes.
The cache must be enable (CE bit set).
0: Caching not forced
1: Caching forced

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Chrom-GRC (GFXMMU)

Bits 10:9 CLB[1:0]: Cache lock buffer
This field select the buffer on which the cache is locked.
00: Cache locked on buffer 0
01: Cache locked on buffer 1
10: Cache locked on buffer 2
11: Cache locked on buffer 3
Bit 8 CL: Cache lock
This bit lock the cache onto the buffer defined in the CLB field.
0: Cache not locked
1: Cache locked to a buffer
Bit 7 CE: Cache enable
This bit enables the cache unit.
0: Cache disable
1: Cache enable
Bit 6 192BM: 192 Block mode
This bit defines the number of blocks per line
0: 256 blocks per line
1: 192 blocks per line
Bit 5 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 4 AMEIE: AHB master error interrupt enable
This bit enables the AHB master error interrupt.
0: Interrupt disable
1: Interrupt enabled
Bit 3 B3OIE: Buffer 3 overflow interrupt enable
This bit enables the buffer 3 overflow interrupt.
0: Interrupt disable
1: Interrupt enabled
Bit 2 B2OIE: Buffer 2 overflow interrupt enable
This bit enables the buffer 2 overflow interrupt.
0: Interrupt disable
1: Interrupt enabled
Bit 1 B1OIE: Buffer 1 overflow interrupt enable
This bit enables the buffer 1 overflow interrupt.
0: Interrupt disable
1: Interrupt enabled
Bit 0 B0OIE: Buffer 0 overflow interrupt enable
This bit enables the buffer 0 overflow interrupt.
0: Interrupt disable
1: Interrupt enabled

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

