RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)
The data can be sent or received in DTR mode (on each rising and falling edge of the clock)
setting DDTR in OCTOSPI_CCR.
When DMODE[2:0] = 000, the data phase is skipped, and the command sequence finishes
immediately by raising the NCS. This configuration must be used only in indirect-write
mode.
In memory-mapped mode, the data format for the write operation is specified in
OCTOSPI_WCCR. The data format for the read operation is specified in OCTOSPI_CCR.

DQS use
The DQS signal can be used for data strobing during the read transactions when the device
toggles the DQS aligned with the data.
The DQS management can be enabled by setting DQSE in OCTOSPI_CCR.
Figure 148. DTR read in octal-SPI mode with DQS (Macronix mode) example
§

NCS

DQS
IO[7:0]

EEh

11h

A[31:24] A[23:16]

A[15:8]

A[7:0]

§

§

§

CLK

Address

D1

Dummy

D0

Word
unit

D3

D2

Word
unit
MSv43489V1

28.4.5

OCTOSPI regular-command protocol signal interface
Single-SPI mode
The legacy SPI mode allows just a single bit to be sent/received serially. In this mode, the
data is sent to the external device over the SO signal (Single-SPI Output) (whose I/Os are
shared with IO0). The data received from the external device arrives via SI (Single-SPI
Input) (whose I/Os are shared with IO1).
Compared to the SPI legacy mode, I0/SO and I1/SI are respectively equivalent to MOSI and
MISO, having the OCTOSPI generating the clock.
The different phases can each be configured separately to use this single-SPI mode by
setting to 001 the IMODE, ADMODE, ABMODE, and DMODE fields in OCTOSPI_CCR and
OCTOSPI_WCCR.
In each phase configured in single-SPI mode:
•

IO0 (SO) is in output mode.

•

IO1 (SI) is in input mode (high impedance).

•

IO2 is in output mode and forced to 0 (to deactivate the “write protect” function).

•

IO3 is in output mode and forced to 1 (to deactivate the “hold” function).

•

IO4 to IO7 are in output mode and forced to 0.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1104

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)

RM0456

This is the case even for the dummy phase if DMODE[2:0] = 001.

Dual-SPI mode
In dual-SPI mode, two bits are sent/received simultaneously over the IO0/IO1 signals.
The different phases can each be configured separately to use dual-SPI mode by setting
to 010 the IMODE, ADMODE, ABMODE, and DMODE fields in OCTOSPI_CCR and
OCTOSPI_WCCR.
In each phase configured in dual-SPI mode:
•

IO0/IO1 are at high-impedance (input) during the data phase for the read operations,
and outputs in all other cases.

•

IO2 is in output mode and forced to 0.

•

IO3 is in output mode and forced to 1.

•

IO4 to IO7 are in output mode and forced to 0.

In the dummy phase when DMODE[2:0] = 010, IO0/IO1 are always high-impedance.

Quad-SPI mode
In quad-SPI mode, four bits are sent/received simultaneously over the IO0/IO1/IO2/IO3
signals.
The different phases can each be configured separately to use the quad-SPI mode by
setting to 011 the IMODE, ADMODE, ABMODE, and DMODE fields in OCTOSPI_CCR and
OCTOSPI_WCCR.
In each phase configured in quad-SPI mode:
•

IO0 to IO3 are all at high-impedance (inputs) during the data phase for the read
operations, and outputs in all other cases.

•

IO4 to IO7 are in output mode and forced to 0.

In the dummy phase when DMODE[2:0] = 011, IO0 to IO3 are all high-impedance.

Octal-SPI mode
In regular octal-SPI mode, the eight bits are sent/received simultaneously over the IO[0:7]
signals.
The different phases can each be configured separately to use the octal-SPI mode by
setting to 100 the IMODE, ADMODE, ABMODE, and DMODE fields in OCTOSPI_CCR and
OCTOSPI_WCCR.
In each phase that is configured in octal-SPI mode, IO[0:7] are all at high-impedance (input)
during the data phase for read operations, and outputs in all other cases.
In the dummy phase when DMODE[2:0] = 100, IO[0:7] are all high-impedance.

Single-data rate (SDR) mode
By default, all the phases operate in SDR mode.
In this mode, when the OCTOSPI drives the IO0/SO, IO1 to IO7 signals, these signals
transition only with the falling edge of CLK.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Octo-SPI interface (OCTOSPI)
When receiving data in SDR mode, the OCTOSPI assumes that the external devices also
send the data using CLK falling edge. By default (when SSHIFT = 0 in OCTOSPI_TCR), the
signals are sampled using the following (rising) edge of CLK.
Figure 149. SDR write command in octo-SPI mode example

§

NCS

02h

FDh

A[31:24]

A[23:16]

A[15:8]

A[7:0]

D0

D1

§§

IO[7:0]

§

CLK

D254

D255
MSv43490V1

Note:

Due to internal synchronization, up to six extra dummy clock cycles may be generated by
the Octo-SPI interface after the last data is read.

Double-transfer rate (DTR) mode
Each of the instruction, address, alternate-byte, and data phases can be configured to
operate in DTR mode setting IDTR, ADDTR, ABDTR, and DDTR in OCTOSPI_CCR.
In memory-mapped mode, the DTR mode for each phase of the write operations is specified
in OCTOSPI_WCCR. The DTR mode for each phase of the read operations is specified in
OCTOSPI_CCR.
In DTR mode, when the OCTOSPI drives the IO0/SO and IO1 to IO7 signals in the
instruction, address, and alternate-byte phases, a bit is sent or received on each of the
falling and rising edges of CLK.
When receiving data in DTR mode, the OCTOSPI assumes that the external devices also
send the data using both CLK rising and falling edges. When DDTR = 1 in OCTOSPI_CCR,
the software must clear SSHIFT in OCTOSPI_TCR. Thus, the signals are sampled one half
of a CLK cycle later (on the following, opposite edge).
In DTR mode, it is recommended to set DHQC of OCTOSPI_TCR, to shift the outputs by
a quarter of cycle and avoid holding issues on the memory side.
Note:

DHQC must not be set when the prescaler value is 0, as this action leads to unpredictable
behavior.
Figure 150. DTR write in octal-SPI mode (Macronix mode) example

CLK
IO[7:0]

02h

FDh A[31:24] A[23:16] A[15:8] A[7:0]

D1

D0

Word Unit

у у у

у

NCS

D255

D254

Word Unit
MSv43491V1

Note:

Due to internal synchronization, up to six extra dummy clock cycles may be generated by
the Octo-SPI interface after the last data is read.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

