RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
When using an external driver (a voltage switch transceiver), the SDMMC_CKIN feedback
clock input can be selected to sample the receive data.
For an SD/SDIO/e•MMC card, the clock frequency can vary between 0 and 208 MHz
(limited by maximum I/O speed).
Depending on the selected bus mode (SDR or DDR), one bit or two bits are transferred on
SDMMC_D[7:0] lines with each clock cycle. The SDMMC_CMD line transfers only one bit
per clock cycle.

31.5.4

SDMMC adapter
The SDMMC adapter (see Figure 191: SDMMC block diagram) is a multimedia/secure
digital memory card bus master that provides an interface to a MultiMediaCard stack or to a
secure digital memory card. It consists of the following subunits:

Note:

•

Control unit

•

Data transmit path

•

Command path

•

Data receive path

•

Response path

•

Receive data path clock multiplexer

•

Delay block (DLYB), external to the SDMMC

•

Adapter register block

•

Data FIFO

•

Internal DMA (IDMA)

The adapter registers and FIFO use the AHB clock domain (sdmmc_hclk). The control unit,
command path and data transmit path use the SDMMC adapter clock domain
(sdmmc_ker_ck). The response path and data receive path use the SDMMC adapter
feedback clock domain from the sdmmc_io_in_ck, or SDMMC_CKIN, or from the
sdmmc_fb_ck generated by DLYB.
The DLYB delay block on the device can be used in conjunction with the SDMMC adapter,
to tune the phase of the sampling clock for incoming data in SDMMC receive mode. It is
required for the SDMMC to support the SDR104 and HS200 operating mode and optional
for SDR50 and DDR50 modes.

Adapter register block
The adapter register block contains all system control registers, the SDMMC command and
response registers and the data FIFO.
This block also generates the signals from the corresponding bit location in the SDMMC
Clear register that clear the static flags in the SDMMC adapter.

Control unit
The control unit illustrated in Figure 193, contains the power management functions, the
SDMMC_CK clock management with divider, and the I/O direction management.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

Figure 193. Control unit
Control unit
Registers
SDMMC_D0DIR
Power
management
sdmmc_ker_ck

IO
management

SDMMC_D123DIR
SDMMC_CDIR

Clock
management
SDMMC_CK

To command/response and data paths

MSv39278V2

The power management subunit disables the card bus output signals during the power-off
and power-up phases.
There are three power phases:
•

power-off

•

power-up

•

power-on

The clock management subunit uses the sdmmc_ker_ck to generate the SDMMC_CK and
provides the division control. It also takes care of stopping the SDMMC_CK for flow control,
for example.
The clock outputs are inactive:
•

after reset

•

during the power-off or power-up phases

•

if the power saving mode (register bit PWRSAV) is enabled and the card bus is in the
Idle state for eight clock periods. The clock is stopped eight cycles after both the
command/response CPSM and data path DPSM subunits have enter the Idle phase.
The clock is restarted when the command/response CPSM or data path DPSM is
activated (enabled).

The I/O management subunit takes care of the SDMMC_Dn and SDMMC_CMD I/O
direction signals, which controls the external voltage transceiver.

Command/response path
The command/response path subunit transfers commands and responses on the
SDMMC_CMD line. The command path is clocked on the SDMMC_CK and sends
commands to the card,. The response path is clocked on the sdmmc_rx_ck and receives
responses from the card.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
Figure 194. Command/response path
To control unit

Command / Response
path

Registers

Status
flag

Command
timer

Control
logic

Response
registers
Response
shift
register

CRC

in

SDMMC_CMD

sdmmc_rx_ck

Command
registers
Command
shift
register

CRC

out

SDMMC_CK
MSv40160V2

Command/response path state machine (CPSM):
•

•

When the command register is written to and the enable bit is set, command transfer
starts. When the command has been sent the CRC is appended and the command
path state machine (CPSM) sets the status flags and:
–

if a response is not required enters the Idle state.

–

If a response is required, it waits for the response.

When the response is received,
–

for a response with CRC, the received CRC code and the internally generated
code are compared, and the appropriate status flag is set according the result.

–

for a response without CRC, no CRC is checked, and the appropriate status flag is
not set.

When ever the CPSM is active (not in the Idle state), the CPSMACT bit is set.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

Figure 195. Command path state machine (CPSM)
Reset
SDMMC_CMD write
and
CPSMEN = 1
and
and
WAITPEND = 1

Pending

Idle

SDMMC_CMD write
and
CPSMEN = 1
and
BOOTEN = 1

DPSM send CMD
or
WAITPEND = 0

BOOTMODE = 0
and
BOOTEN = 1

End of response
or
CRC status error

SDMMC_CMD write
and
CPSMEN = 1
and
WAITPEND = 0
and
BOOTEN = 0

Receive

BOOTMODE = 0
and
BOOTEN = 0

Start bit detected

End of CMD
and
WAITRESP = 00

Boot

Wait

BOOTMODE = 1

Send

•

•

<!-- pagebreak -->

End of CMD
and
WAITRESP = not 00

MSv40161V1

Idle: The command path is inactive. When the command control register is written and
the enable bit (CPSMEN) is set, the CPSM activates the SDMMC_CK clock (when
stopped due to power save PWRSAV bit) and moves
–

to the Send state when WAITPEND = 0 and BOOTEN = 0.

–

to the Pending state when WAITPEND = 1.

–

to the Boot state when BOOTEN = 1.

Send: The command is sent and the CRC is appended.
–

When CMDTRANS bit is set or when BOOTEN bit is set and BOOTMODE is
alternative boot, and the DTDIR = receive, the CPSM DataEnable signal is issued
to the DPSM at the end of the command.

–

When the CMDTRANS bit is set and the CMDSUSPEND bit is 0 the interrupt
period is terminated at the end of the command.

–

When CMDSTOP bit is set the CPSM Abort signal is issued to the DPSM at the
end of the command.

–

If no response is expected (WAITRESP = 00) the CPSM moves to the Idle state
and the CMDSENT flag is set. When BOOTMODE = 1 and BOOTEN = 0 the
CMDSENT flag is delayed 56 cycles after the command end bit, otherwise the

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
CMDSENT flag is generated immediately after the command end bit.
The RESPCMDR and RESPxR registers are not modified.
–
•

•

•

If a command response is expected (WAITRESP = not 00) the CPSM moves to
the Wait state and start the response timeout.

Wait: The command path waits for a response.
–

When WAITINT bit is 0 the command timer starts running and the CPSM waits for
a start bit.

a)

If a start bit is detected before the timeout the CPSM moves to the Receive state.

b)

If the timeout is reached before the CPSM detect a response start bit, the timeout
flag (CTIMEOUT) is set and the CPSM moves to the Idle state.
The RESPCMDR and RESPxR registers are not modified.

–

When WAITINT bit is 1, the timer is disabled and the CPSM waits for an interrupt
request (response start bit) from one of the cards.

a)

When a start bit is detected the CPSM moves to the Receive state.

b)

When writing WAITINT to 0 (interrupt mode abort), the host sends a response by
its self and on detecting the start bit the CPSM move to the Receive state.

Receive: The command response is received. Depending the response mode bits
WAITRESP in the command control register, the response can be either short or long,
with CRC or without CRC. The received CRC code when present is verified against the
internally generated CRC code.
–

When the CMDSUSPEND bit is set and the SDIO Response bit BS = 0 (response
bit [39]), the interrupt period is started after the response.
When the CMDSUSPEND bit is cleared, or the CMDSUSPEND bit is 1 and the
SDIO Response bit BS = 1 (response bit [39]), there is no interrupt period started.

–

When the CMDTRANS bit is set and the CMDSUSPEND bit is set and the SDIO
Response bit DF= 1 (response bit [32]) the interrupt period is terminated after the
response.

–

When the CRC status passes or no CRC is present the CMDREND flag is set, the
CPSM moves to the Idle state.
The RESPCMDR and RESPxR registers are updated with received response.
- When BOOTMODE = 1 and BOOTEN = 0 the CMDREND flag is delayed 56
cycles after the response end bit, otherwise the CMDREND flag is generated
immediately after the response end bit.
- When CMDTRANS bit is set and the DTDIR = transmit, the CPSM DataEnable
signal is issued to the DPSM at the end of the command response.

–

When the CRC status fails the CCRCFAIL flag is set and the CPSM moves to the
Idle state.
The RESPCMDR and RESPxR registers are updated with received response.

Pending: According the pending WAITPEND bit in the command register, the CPSM
enters the pending state.
–

When DATALENGTH ≤ 5 bytes the CPSM moves to the Sent state and generates
the DataEnable signal to start the data transfer aligned with the CMD12 Stop
Transmission command.

–

When DATALENGTH > 5 bytes, the CPSM DataEnable signal is issued to the
DPSM to start the data transfer. The CPSM waits for a send CMD signal from the

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

DPSM before moving to the Send state. This enables, for example, the CMD12
Stop Transmission command to be sent aligned with the data.
–
•

Note:

When writing WAITPEND to 0, the CPSM moves to the Send state.

Boot: If the BOOTEN bit is set in the command register, the CPSM enters the Boot
state, and when:
–

BOOTMODE = 0 the SDMMC_CMD line is driven low and when CMDTRANS bit
is set and the DTDIR = receive, the CPSM DataEnable signal is issued to the
DPSM. This enables normal boot operation. This state is left at the end of the boot
procedure by clearing the register bit BOOTEN, which cause the SDMMC_CMD
line to be driven high and the CPSM Abort signal is issued to the DPSM, before
moving to the Idle state. The CMDSENT flag is generated 56 cycles after
SDMMC_CMD line is high.

–

BOOTMODE = 1, move to the Send state. This enables sending of the CMD0
(boot). Clearing BOOTEN has no effect.

The CPSM remains in the Idle state for at least eight SDMMC_CK periods to meet the NCC
and NRC timing constraints. NCC is the minimum delay between two host commands, and
NRC is the minimum delay between the host command and the card response.
The response timeout has a fixed value of 64 SDMMC_CK clock periods.
A command is a token that starts an operation. Commands are sent from the host to either a
single card (addressed command) or all connected cards (broadcast command are
available for e•MMC V3.31 or previous). Commands are transferred serially on the
SDMMC_CMD line. All commands have a fixed length of 48 bits. The general format for a
command token for SD-Memory cards, SDIO cards, and e•MMC cards is shown in Table
278.
The command token data is taken from two registers, one containing a 32-bit argument and
the other containing the 6-bit command index (six bits sent to a card).
Table 278. Command token format
Bit position

Width

Value

Description

47

1

0

Start bit

46

1

1

Transmission bit

[45:40]

6

x

Command index

[39:8]

32

x

Argument

[7:1]

7

x

CRC7

0

1

1

End bit

Next to the command data there are command type (WAITRESP) bits controlling the
command path state machine (CPSM). These bits also determine whether the command
requires a response, and whether the response is short (48 bit) or long (136 bits) long, and if
a CRC is present or not.
A response is a token that is sent from an addressed card or synchronously from all
connected cards to the host as an answer to a previous received command. All responses
are sent via the command line SDMMC_CMD. The response transmission always starts
with the left bit of the bit string corresponding to the response code word. The code length
depends on the response type. Response tokens R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, and R6 have various

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
coding schemes, depending on their content. The general formats for the response tokens
for SD-Memory cards, SDIO cards, and e•MMC cards are shown in Table 279, Table 280
and Table 281.
A response always starts with a start bit (always 0), followed by the bit indicating the
direction of transmission (card = 0). A value denoted by x in the tables below indicates a
variable entry. Most responses, except some, are protected by a CRC. Every command
code word is terminated by the end bit (always 1).
The response token data is stored in five registers, four containing the 32-bits card status,
OCR register, argument or 127-bits CID or CSD register including internal CRC, and one
register containing the 6-bits command index.
Table 279. Short response with CRC token format
Bit position

Width

Value

Description

47

1

0

Start bit

46

1

0

Transmission bit

[45:40]

6

x

Command index (or reserved 111111)

[39:8]

32

x

Argument

[7:1]

7

x

CRC7

0

1

1

End bit

Table 280. Short response without CRC token format
Bit position

Width

Value

Description

47

1

0

Start bit

46

1

0

Transmission bit

[45:40]

6

x

Command index (or reserved 111111)

[39:8]

32

x

Argument

[7:1]

7

1111111

0

1

1

(reserved 1111111)
End bit

Table 281. Long response with CRC token format
Bit position

Width

Value

135

1

0

Start bit

134

1

0

Transmission bit

[133:128]

6

111111

127:8

x

CID or CSD slices

7:1

x

CRC7 (included in CID or CSD)

1

1

End bit

[127:1]
0

Description

Reserved

The command/response path operates in a half-duplex mode, so that either commands can
be sent or responses can be received. If the CPSM is not in the Send state, the

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

SDMMC_CMD output is in the Hi-Z state. Data sent on SDMMC_CMD are synchronous
with the SDMMC_CK according the NEGEDGE register bit see Figure 192.
The command and short response with CRC, the CRC generator calculates the CRC
checksum for all 40 bits before the CRC code. This includes the start bit, transmission bit,
command index, and command argument (or card status).
For the long response the CRC checksum is calculated only over the 120 bits of R2 CID or
CSD. Note that the start bit, transmission bit and the six reserved bits are not used in the
CRC calculation.
The CRC checksum is a 7-bit value:
CRC[6:0] = remainder [(M(x) * x7) / G(x)]
G(x) = x7 + x3 + 1
M(x) = (first bit) * xn + (second bit) * xn-1+... + (last bit before CRC) * x0
Where n = 39 or 119.
The CPSM can send a number of specific commands to handle various operating modes
when CPSMEN is set, see Table 282.

<!-- pagebreak -->

VSWITCH

BOOTEN

BOOTMOD

CMDTRAN

WAITPEND

CMDSTOP

WAITINT

Table 282. Specific Commands overview

1

x

x

x

x

x

x

Start voltage switch sequence

0

1

x

x

x

x

x

Start normal boot

0

1

1

x

x

x

x

Start alternative boot

0

0

1

x

x

x

x

Stop alternative boot.

0

0

0

1

x

x

x

Send command with associated data transfer.

0

0

0

0

1

1

x

e•MMC stream data transfer, command
(STOP_TRANSMISSION) pending until end of data transfer.

0

0

0

0

1

0

x

e•MMC stream data transfer, command different from
(STOP_TRANSMISSION) pending until end of data transfer.

0

0

0

0

0

1

x

Send command (STOP_TRANSMISSION), stopping any
ongoing data transmission.

0

0

0

0

0

0

1

Enter e•MMC wait interrupt (Wait-IRQ) mode.

0

0

0

0

0

0

0

Any other none specific command

Description

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
The command/response path implements the status flags and associated clear bits shown
in Table 283:
Table 283. Command path status flags

Flag

Description

CMDSENT

Set at the end of the command without response (CPSM moves from Send to Idle).

CMDREND

Set at the end of the command response when the CRC is OK (CPSM moves from Receive to
Idle).

CCRCFAIL

Set at the end of the command response when the CRC is FAIL (CPSM moves from Receive to
Idle).

CTIMEOUT

Set after the command when no response start bit received before the timeout (CPSM moves
from Wait to Idle).

CKSTOP

Set after the voltage switch (VSWITCHEN = 1) command response when the CRC is OK and the
SDMMC_CK is stopped (no impact on CPSM).

VSWEND

Set after the voltage switch (VSWITCH = 1) timeout of 5 ms + 1 ms (no impact on CPSM).

CPSMACT

Command transfer in progress (CPSM not in Idle state).

The command path error handling is shown in Table 284:
Table 284. Command path error handling
Error

CPSM state

Timeout

Wait

CRC status Receive

Cause

Card action

Host action

No start bit in
time

Unknown

Reset or cycle power
card(1)

Negative
status

Command ignored

Resend command(1)

Transmission
error

Command accepted

Resend command(1)

CPSM action
Move to Idle

Move to Idle

1. When CMDTRANS is set, also a stop_transmission command must be send to move the DPSM to Idle.

Data path
The data path subunit transfers data on the SDMMC_D[7:0] lines to and from cards. The
data transmit path is clocked on the SDMMC_CK and sends data to the card. The data
receive path is clocked on the sdmmc_rx_ck and receives data from the card. Figure 196
shows the data path block diagram.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

Figure 196. Data path
To control unit

Data path

Status
flag

Registers

Data
timer

Odd receive
shift register

FIFO

Even receive
shift register

Control
logic

in

Odd CRC

SDMMC_D[7:0]

Even CRC

sdmmc_rx_ck
Odd transmit
shift register

Mux

Odd CRC

Even transmit
shift register

out

Even CRC

SDMMC_CK
MSv40162V2

The card data bus width can be programmed in the clock control register bits WIDBUS. The
supported data bus width modes are:
•

If the wide bus mode is not enabled, only one bit is transferred over SDMMC_D0.

•

If the 4-bit wide bus mode is enabled, data is transferred at four bits over
SDMMC_D[3:0].

•

If the 8-bit wide bus mode is enabled, data is transferred at eight bits over
SDMMC_D[7:0].

Next to the data bus width the data sampling mode can be programmed in the clock control
register bit DDR. The supported data sampling modes are:

Note:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

Single data rate signaling (SDR), data is clocked on the rising edge of the clock.

•

Double data rate signaling (DDR), data is clocked on the both edges of the clock. DDR
mode is only supported in wide bus mode (4-bit wide and 8-bit wide).

The data sampling mode only applies to the SDMMC_D[7:0] lines. (not applicable to the
SDMMC_CMD line.)

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
In DDR mode, data is sampled on both edges of the SDMMC_CK according the following
rules, see also Figure 197 and Figure 198:
•

On the rising edge of the clock odd bytes are sampled.

•

On the falling edge of the clock even bytes are sampled.

•

Data payload size is always a multiple of 2 bytes.

•

Two CRC16 are computed per data line
–

Odd bits CRC16 clocked on the falling edge of the clock.

–

Even bits CRC16 clocked on the rising edge of the clock.

•

Start, end bits and idle conditions are full cycle.

•

CRC status / boot acknowledgment and busy signaling are full cycle and are only
sampled on the rising edge of the clock.

In DDR mode, the SDMMC_CK clock division must be ≥ 2.
Figure 197. DDR mode data packet clocking
SDMMC_CK
Byte 2

Byte 4

Byte n

SDMMC_D3

0
start

b7 b7 b3 b3 b7 b7 b3 b 3
odd even odd even odd even odd even

b7 b7 b3 b3 crc15 crc15 crc14 crc14
odd even odd even odd even odd even

crc0 crc0
odd even

1
end

SDMMC_D2

0
start

b6 b6 b2 b2 b6 b6 b2 b 2
odd even odd even odd even odd even

b6 b6 b2 b2 crc15 crc15 crc14 crc14
odd even odd even odd even odd even

crc0 crc0
odd even

1
end

SDMMC_D1

0
start

b5 b5 b1 b1 b5 b5 b1 b 1
odd even odd even odd even odd even

b5 b5 b1 b1 crc15 crc15 crc14 crc14
odd even odd even odd even odd even

crc0 crc0
odd even

1
end

SDMMC_D0

0
start

b4 b4 b0 b0 b4 b4 b0 b 0
odd even odd even odd even odd even

b4 b4 b0 b0 crc15 crc15 crc14 crc14
odd even odd even odd even odd even

crc0 crc0
odd even

1
end

Byte 1

BYte 3

Data odd

Byte n-1

Block length

Data even

CRC

CRC odd
CRC even

MSv40163V2

Figure 198. DDR mode CRC status / boot acknowledgment clocking
SDMMC_CK
SDMMC_D0

0
start

1
end
CRC status / boot ack
MSv40164V1

Data path state machine (DPSM)
Depending on the transfer direction (send or receive), the data path state machine (DPSM)
moves to the Wait_S or Wait_R state when it is enabled:
•

Send: the DPSM moves to the Wait_S state. If there is data in the transmit FIFO, the
DPSM moves to the Send state, and the data path subunit starts sending data to a
card.

•

Receive: the DPSM moves to the Wait_R state and waits for a start bit. When it
receives a start bit, the DPSM moves to the Receive state, and the data path subunit
starts receiving data from a card.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

For boot operation with acknowledgment the DPSM moves to the Wait_Ack state and
waits for the boot acknowledgment before moving to the Wait_R state.
The DPSM operates at SDMMC_CK. The DPSM has the following states, as shown in
Figure 199. When ever the DPSM is active (not in the Idle state), the DPSMACT bit is set.
Figure 199. Data path state machine (DPSM)
CPSM Abort
&
FIFO empty

R_W

CPSM Abort

reset

RWSTOP=1

Idle

(CPSM
DataEnable
or
write DTEN=1)
&
DTDIR=0
&
Not busy

Busy

Not busy
&
(CRC status
FAIL
or
CPSM Abort)

Busy

End of packet
or
End of data
(DATACOUNT=
0)
or
CPSM Abort

Wait_Ack

Ack status OK

End of data
DATACOUNT=0
or
DTHOLD=1
or
CPSM Abort
&
FIFO empty

(CRC status OK
Or
No CRC)
&
Not busy

CPSM DataEnable
&
DTDIR=1
&
BOOTACKEN=1

(CPSM DataEnable or
write DTEN=1)
&
DTDIR=1
&
BOOTACKEN=0
DATACOUNT=0
or
CPSM Abort
or
DTHOLD = 1
&
FIFO empty

Wait_R

Wait_S

(End of packet)
or
End of data
(DATACOUNT=0)
&
RWSTART=0

DATACOUNT not 0
&
Start bit detected

TXFIFOE= not
0
&
DTHOLD=0

End of packet
&
DATACOUNT =
not 0
&
RWSTART=1

Send
CPSM Abort
&
FIFO empty

•

Receive
MSv40189V1

Idle state: the data path is inactive, and the SDMMC_D[7:0] outputs are according the
PWRCTRL setting. The DPSM is activated either by sending a command with
CMDTRANS bit set or by setting the DTEN bit, or by detecting Busy on SDMMC_D0
(that is, after a command with R1b response).
When not busy, the DPSM activates the SDMMC_CK clock (when stopped due to
power save PWRSAV bit), loads the data counter with a new (DATALENGTH) value
and:
–

When the data direction bit (DTDIR) indicates send, moves to the Wait_S.

–

When the data direction bit (DTDIR) indicates receive, moves to the
- Wait_R when BOOTACKEN register bit is clear.
- Wait_Ack when BOOTACKEN register bit is set and start the acknowledgment
timeout.

When busy the DPSM keeps the SDMMC_CK clock active and move to the Busy state.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456
Note:

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
DTEN must not be used to start data transfer with SD, SDIO and e•MMC cards.
•

•

Wait_Ack state: the data path waits for the boot acknowledgment token.
–

The DPSM moves to the Wait_R state if it receives an error free acknowledgment
before a timeout.

–

When a pattern different from the acknowledgment is received an
acknowledgment status error is generated, and the ack fail status flag (ACKFAIL)
is set. The DPSM stays in Wait_Ack.

–

If it reaches a timeout (ACKTIME) before it detects a start bit, it sets the timeout
status flag (ACKTIMEOUT). The DPSM stays in Wait_Ack.

–

When the CPSM Abort signal is set it moves to the Idle state and sets the
DABORT flag.

Wait_R state: the data path, if the data counter is not zero and data is not hold, waits
for a start bit on SDMMC_D[n:0]. If the data counter is zero or data is hold, wait for the
FIFO to be empty.
–

In block mode, if a start bit is received before a timeout the DPSM moves to the
Receive state and loads the data block counter with DBLOCKSIZE.

–

In SDIO multibyte mode, if a start bit is received before a timeout the DPSM
moves to the Receive state and loads the data block counter with DATALENGTH.

–

In stream mode, if a start bit is received before a timeout the DPSM moves to the
Receive state and loads the data counter with DATALENGTH.

–

if the data counter (DATACOUNT) equals zero (end of data) the DPSM moves to
the Idle state when the receive FIFO is empty and the DATAEND flag is set.

–

If it reaches a timeout (DATATIME) before it detects a start bit, it sets the timeout
status flag (DTIMEOUT) and the DPSM stays in the Wait_R state.

–

If the CPSM Abort signal is set:
If DATACOUNT > 0, the DPSM moves to the Idle state when the FIFO is empty
and when IDMAEN = 0 reset with FIFORST, and sets the DABORT flag.
If DATACOUNT is zero normal operation is continued, there is no DABORT flag
since the transfer has completed normally.

–

if the DTHOLD bit is set:
- When DATACOUNT > 0, the DPSM moves to the Idle state when the receive
FIFO is empty and when IDMAEN = 0 reset with FIFORST, and issues the DHOLD
flag. When holding the timeout is disabled. When an CPSM Abort signal is
received during holding, the transfer is aborted.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

- When DATACOUNT = 0, the transfer is completed normally and there is no
DHOLD flag.
–

•

•

<!-- pagebreak -->

When DPSM has been started with DTEN, after an error (DTIMEOUT) the DPSM
moves to the Idle state when the FIFO is empty and when IDMAEN = 0 reset with
FIFORST.

R_W state: the data path Read Wait the bus.
–

The DPSM moves to the Wait_R state when the Read Wait stop bit (RWSTOP) is
set, and start the receive timeout.

–

If the CPSM Abort signal is set, wait for the FIFO to be empty and when
IDMAEN = 0 reset with FIFORST, then moves to the Idle state and sets the
DABORT flag.

Receive state: the data path receives serial data from a card. Pack the data in bytes
and written it to the data FIFO. Depending on the transfer mode selected in the data
control register (DTMODE), the data transfer mode can be either block or stream:
–

In block mode, when the data block size (DBLOCKSIZE) number of data bytes are
received, the DPSM waits until it receives the CRC code.

–

In SDIO multibyte mode, when the data block size (DATALENGTH) number of
data bytes are received, the DPSM waits until it receives the CRC code.

a)

If the received CRC code matches the internally generated CRC code, the DPSM
moves to the
- R_W state when RWSTART = 1 and DATACOUNT > zero, the DBCKEND flag is
set.
- Wait_R state otherwise.

b)

If the received CRC code fails the internally generated CRC code any further data
reception is prevented.
- When not all data has been received (DATACOUNT > 0), the CRC fail status flag
(DCRCFAIL) is set and the DPSM stays in the Receive state.
- When all data has been received (DATACOUNT = 0), wait for the FIFO to be
empty after which the CRC fail status flag (DCRCFAIL) is set and the DPSM
moves to the Idle state.

–

In stream mode, the DPSM receives data while the data counter
DATACOUNT > 0. When the counter is zero, the remaining data in the shift
register is written to the data FIFO, and the DPSM moves to the Wait_R state.

–

When a FIFO overrun error occurs, the DPSM sets the FIFO overrun error flag
(RXOVERR) and any further data reception is prevented. The DPSM stays in the
Receive state.

–

When an CPSM Abort signal is received:
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received before the 2 last bits of the data with
DATACOUNT = 0, the transfer is aborted. The remaining data in the shift register
is written to the data FIFO, wait for the FIFO to be empty and when IDMAEN = 0
reset with FIFORST, then the DPSM moves to the Idle state and the DABORT flag
is set.
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received during or after the 2 last bits of the transfer
with DATACOUNT = 0, the transfer is completed normally. The DPSM stays in the
Receive state no DABORT flag is generated.

–

When DPSM has been started with DTEN, after an error (DCRCFAIL when
DATACOUNT > 0, or RXOVERR) the DPSM moves to the Idle state when the
FIFO is empty and when IDMAEN = 0 reset with FIFORST.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
•

Note:

Wait_S state: the data path waits for data to be available from the FIFO.
–

If the data counter DATACOUNT > 0, waits until the data FIFO empty flag
(TXFIFOE) is de-asserted and DTHOLD is not set, and moves to the Send state.

–

If the data counter (DATACOUNT) = 0 the DPSM moves to the Idle state.
- When DTHOLD is disabled, the DATAEND flag is set.
- When DTHOLD is enabled, the DHOLD flag is set.

–

When DTHOLD is set and the DATACOUNT > 0
- When IDMA is enabled, the DBCKEND flag is set and subsequently the FIFO is
flushed, furthermore the DPSM moves to the Idle state and the DHOLD flag is set.
- When IDMA is disabled the DBCKEND flag is set. Wait for the FIFO to be reset
by software with FIFORST, then DPSM moves to the Idle state and issues the
DHOLD flag.

–

When DTHOLD is set and DATACOUNT = 0 the transfer is completed normally.

–

When receiving the CPSM Abort signal
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received before the 2 last bits of the data with
DATACOUNT = 0, the transfer is aborted, wait for the FIFO to be empty and when
IDMAEN = 0 reset with FIFORST, then the DPSM moves to the Idle state and sets
the DABORT flag.
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received during or after the 2 last bits of the transfer
with DATACOUNT = 0, normal operation is continued, there is no DABORT flag
since the transfer has completed normally.

The DPSM remains in the Wait_S state for at least two clock periods to meet the NWR timing
requirements, where NWR is the number of clock cycles between the reception of the card
response and the start of the data transfer from the host.
•

Send state: the DPSM starts sending data to a card. Depending on the transfer mode
bit in the data control register, the data transfer mode can be either block, SDIO
multibyte or stream:
–

In block mode, when the data block size (DBLOCKSIZE) number of data bytes are
send, the DPSM sends an internally generated CRC code and end bit, and moves
to the Busy state and start the transmit timeout.

–

In SDIO multibyte mode, when the data block size (DATALENGTH) number of
data bytes are send, the DPSM sends an internally generated CRC code and end
bit, and moves to the Busy state and start the transmit timeout.

–

In stream mode, the DPSM sends data to a card while the data counter
DATACOUNT > 0. When the data counter reaches zero moves to the Busy state
and start the transmit timeout.
Before sending the last stream byte according to DATACOUNT, the DPSM issues
a trigger on the send CMD signal. This signal is used by the CPSM to sent any
pending command (CMD12 Stop Transmission command).

–

If a FIFO underrun error occurs, the DPSM sets the FIFO underrun error flag
(TXUNDERR). The DPSM stays in the Send state.

–

When receiving the CPSM Abort signal
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received before the 2 last bits of the transfer with
DATACOUNT = 0, the transfer is aborted. The DPSM sends a last data bit
followed by an end bit. The FIFO is disabled/flushed, and the DPSM moves to the
Busy state to wait for not busy before setting the DABORT flag.
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received during or after the 2 last bits of the transfer

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

with DATACOUNT = 0, the transfer is completed normally, there is no DABORT
flag.
•

<!-- pagebreak -->

Busy state: the DPSM waits for the CRC status token when expected, and wait for a
not busy signal:
–

If a CRC status token is expected and indicate “non-erroneous transmission” or
when there is no CRC expected:
- it moves to the Wait_S state when SDMMC_D0 is not low (the card is not busy).
- When the card is busy SDMMC_D0 is low it remains in the Busy state.

–

If a CRC status token is expected and indicates “erroneous transmission”.
- When not all data has been send (DATACOUNT > 0). The DPSM waits for not
busy after which the CRC fail status flag (DCRCFAIL) is set. The FIFO is
disabled/flushed and the DPSM stays in the Busy state.
- When all data has been send (DATACOUNT = 0). The DPSM waits for not busy
after which the CRC fail status flag (DCRCFAIL) is set and the DPSM moves to
the Idle state.

–

If a CRC status (Ncrc) timeout occurs while the DPSM is in the Busy state, it sets
the data timeout flag (DTIMEOUT) and stays in the Busy state.

–

If a busy timeout occurs while the DPSM is in the Busy state, it sets the data
timeout flag (DTIMEOUT) and stays in the Busy state.

–

When receiving the CPSM Abort signal in the Busy state:
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received before the 2 last bits of the CRC response
with DATACOUNT > 0, the data transfer is aborted. The DPSM waits for not busy
and the FIFO to be disabled/flushed before moving to the Idle state and the
DABORT flag is set.
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received during or after the 2 last bits of the CRC
response when DATACOUNT = 0 or when no CRC is expected and DATACOUNT
= 0 and there has been no DTIMEOUT error, the DPSM stays in the Busy state no
DABORT flag is generated, since the transfer may completed normally.
- If the CPSM Abort signal is received when a DTIMEOUT error has occurred the
DPSM waits for not busy and the FIFO to be disabled/flushed before moving to the
Idle state and the DABORT flag is set.

–

When entering the Busy state due to an abort in the Send state, the DPSM waits
for not busy before moving to the Idle state and the DABORT flag is set.

–

When DPSM has been started with DTEN, after an error (DCRCFAIL when
DATACOUNT > 0, or DTIMEOUT) the DPSM moves to the Idle state when the
FIFO is reset.

–

When the DPSM has been started due to Busy on SDMMC_D0, waits for not busy
after which the Busy end status flag (BUSYD0END) is set and the DPSM moves to
the Idle state.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
The data timer (DATATIME) is enabled when the DPSM is in the Wait_R or Busy state 2
cycles after the data block end bit, or data read command end bit, or R1b response, and
generates the data timeout error (DTIMEOUT):
•

•

When transmitting data, the timeout occurs
–

when a CRC status is expected and no start bit is received withing 8 SDMMC_CK
cycles, the DTIMEOUT flag is set.

–

when the Busy state takes longer than the programmed timeout period., the
DTIMEOUT flag is set.

When receiving data, the timeout occurs
–

•

when there is still data to be received DATACOUNT > 0 and no start bit is received
before the programmed timeout period, the DTIMEOUT flag is set.

After a R1b response, the timeout occurs
–

when the Busy state takes longer than the programmed timeout period., the
DTIMEOUT flag is set.

When DATATIME = 0:
•

In receive the start bit must be present 2 cycles after the data block end bit or data read
command end bit.

•

In transmit busy is timed out 2 cycles after the CRC token end bit or stream data end
bit.

•

After a R1b response busy is timed out 2 cycles after the response end bit.

Data can be transferred from the card to the host (transmit, send) or vice versa (receive).
Data are transferred via the SDMMC_Dn data lines, they are stored in a FIFO.
Table 285. Data token format
Start bit

Data(1)

CRC16

End bit

DTMODE

Block data

0

(DBLOCKSIZE, DATALENGTH)

Yes

1

00

SDIO multibyte

0

(DATALENGTH)

Yes

1

01

e•MMC stream

0

(DATALENGTH)

No

1

10

Description

1. The total amount of data to transfer is given by DATALENGTH. Where for Block data the amount of data in
each block is given by DBLOCKSIZE.

The data token format is selected with register bits DTMODE according.
The data path implements the status flags and associated clear bits shown in Table 286:
Table 286. Data path status flags and clear bits
Flag

Description
TX

DATAEND

RX
Boot

Set at the end of the complete data transfer when the CRC is OK and busy has finished
and both DTHOLD = 0 and DATACOUNT = 0. (DPSM moves from Wait_S to Idle)
Set at the end of the complete data transfer when the CRC is OK and all data has been
read, (DATACOUNT = 0 and FIFO is empty). (DPSM moves from Wait_R to Idle)

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

Table 286. Data path status flags and clear bits (continued)
Flag

Description
TX

DCRCFAIL

RX
Boot

ACKFAIL

DTIMEOUT

Set at the end of the CRC when FAIL and busy has finished. (DPSM stay in Busy when
there is still data to send and wait for CPSM Abort) (DPSM moves from Busy to Idle when
all data has been sent) or DPSM has been started with DTEN
Set at the end of the CRC when FAIL and FIFO is empty. (DPSM stays in Receive when
there is still data to be received and wait for CPSM Abort) (DPSM moves from Receive to
Idle when all data has been received or DPSM has been started with DTEN)

Boot

Set at the end of the boot acknowledgment when fail. (DPSM stays in Wait_Ack and wait
for CPSM Abort)

CMD
R1b

Set after the command response no end of busy received before the timeout. (DPSM
stays in Busy and wait for CPSM Abort)

TX

Set when no CRC token start bit received within Ncrc, or no end of busy received before
the timeout. (DPSM stays in Busy and wait for CPSM Abort) (When DPSM has been
started with DTEN move to Idle)
Note: The DCRCFAIL flag may also be set when CRC failed before the busy timeout.

RX
Boot

Set when no start bit received before the timeout. (DPSM stays in Wait_R and wait for
CPSM Abort) (When DPSM has been started with DTEN move to Idle)

ACKTIMEOUT Boot

Set when no start bit received before the timeout. (DPSM stays in Wait_Ack and wait for
CPSM Abort)

TX

When DTHOLD = 1 and IDMAEN = 0: Set at the end of data block transfer when the CRC
is OK and busy has finished, when data transfer is not complete (DATACOUNT >0).
(DPSM moves from Busy to Wait_S)

DBCKEND
RX
Boot
TX

When DTHOLD = 1: Set at the end of data block transfer when the CRC is OK and busy
has finished. (DPSM moves from Wait_S to Idle)

RX

When DTHOLD = 1: Set at the end of data block transfer when the CRC is OK and all
data has been read (FIFO is empty), when data transfer is not complete (DATACOUNT
>0). (DPSM moves from Wait_R to Idle)

CMD
R1b

When CPSM Abort event has been sent by the CPSM and busy has finished. (DPSM
moves from Busy to Idle)

DHOLD

DABORT

When RWSTART = 1: Set at the end of data block transfer when the CRC is OK, when
data transfer is not complete (DATACOUNT > 0). (DPSM moves from Receive to R_W)

TX
RX

When CPSM Abort event has been sent by the CPSM before the 2 last bits of the
transfer. (DPSM moves from any state to Idle)

Boot
BUSYD0END
DPSMACT

<!-- pagebreak -->

CMD
R1b

Set after the command response when end of busy before the timeout. (DPSM moves
from Busy to Idle)
Data transfer in progress. (DPSM not in Idle state)

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
The data path error handling is shown in Table 287:
Table 287. Data path error handling

Error

DPSM state

Wait_Ack

Wait_R

Cause
No Ack in
time

CRC

Receive

CRC status Busy

Host action

unknown

Card cycle power

unknown

Stop data reception
Send stop transmission
command

unknown

Stop boot procedure

Busy too
long (due to
data
transfer)

unknown

Stop data reception
Send stop transmission
command

Busy too
long (due to
R1b)

unknown

Send reset command

No start bit
in time

Timeout

Busy

Card action

transmission
Send further data
error
Negative
status

Ignore further data

transmission
wait for further data
error

DPSM action
Stay in Wait_Ack
(reset the SDMMC with
the RCC.SDMMCxRST
register bit)

On CPSM Abort move
to Idle

Stop data reception
Send stop transmission
command

On CPSM Abort move
to Idle

Stop data transmission
Send stop transmission
command

On CPSM Abort move
to Idle

Ack status Wait_Ack

transmission
Send boot data
error

Stop boot procedure

On CPSM Abort move
to Idle

Overrun

Receive

FIFO full

Send further data

Stop data reception
Send stop transmission
command

On CPSM Abort move
to Idle

Underrun

Send

FIFO empty

Stop data transmission
Receive further data Send stop transmission
command

On CPSM Abort move
to Idle

Data FIFO
The data FIFO (first-in-first-out) subunit contains the transmit and receive data buffer. A
single FIFO is used for either transmit or receive as selected by the DTDIR bit. The FIFO
contain a 32-bit wide, 16-word deep data buffer and control logic. Because the data FIFO
operates in the AHB clock domain (sdmmc_hclk), all signals from the subunits in the
SDMMC clock domain (SDMMC_CK/sdmmc_rx_ck) are resynchronized.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

The FIFO can be in one of the following states:
•

The transmit FIFO refers to the transmit logic and data buffer when sending data out to
the card. (DTDIR = 0)

•

The receive FIFO refers to the receive logic and data buffer when receiving data in from
the card. (DTDIR = 1)

The end of a correctly completed SDMMC data transfer from the FIFO is indicated by the
DATAEND flags driven by the data path subunit. Any incorrect (aborted) SDMMC data
transfer from the FIFO is indicated by one of the error flags (DCRCFAIL, DTIMEOUT,
DABORT) driven by the data path subunit, or one of the FIFO error flags (TXUNDERR,
RXOVERR) driven by the FIFO control.
The data FIFO can be accessed in the following ways, see Table 288.
Table 288. Data FIFO access
Data FIFO access

IDMAEN

From firmware via AHB slave interface

0

From IDMA via AHB master interface

1

Transmit FIFO:
Data can be written to the transmit FIFO when the DPSM has been activated
(DPSMACT = 1).
When IDMAEN = 1 the FIFO is fully handled by the IDMA.
When IDMAEN = 0 the FIFO is controlled by firmware via the AHB slave interface. The
transmit FIFO is accessible via sequential addresses. The transmit FIFO contains a data
output register that holds the data word pointed to by the read pointer. When the data path
subunit has loaded its shift register, it increments the read pointer and drives new data out.
The transmit FIFO is handled in the following way:
1.

Write the data length into DATALENGTH and the block length in DBLOCKSIZE.
–

2.

Set the SDMMC in transmit mode (DTDIR = 0).
–

3.

4.

Configures the FIFO in transmit mode.

Enable the data transfer
–

either by sending a command from the CPSM with the CMDTRANS bit set

–

or by setting DTEN bit

When (DPSMACT = 1) write data to the FIFO.
–

<!-- pagebreak -->

For block data transfer (DTMODE = 0), DATALENGTH must be an integer multiple
of DBLOCKSIZE.

The DPSM stays in the Wait_S state until FIFO is full (TXFIFOF = 1), or the
number indicated by DATALENGTH.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)
- The SDMMC keeps sending data as long as FIFO is not empty, hardware flow
control during data transfer is used to prevent FIFO underrun.
5.

6.

Write data to the FIFO.
–

When the FIFO is handled by software, wait until the FIFO is half empty
(TXFIFOHE flag), write data to the FIFO until FIFO is full (TXFIFOF = 1), or last
data has been written.

–

When the FIFO is handled by the IDMA, the IDMA transfers the FIFO date.

When last data has been written wait for end of data (DATAEND flag)
–

SDMMC has completely sent all data and the DPSM is disabled (DPSMACT = 0).

In case of a data transfer error or transfer hold when IDMAEN = 0, firmware must stop
writing to the FIFO and flush and reset the FIFO with the FIFORST register bit.
The transmit FIFO status flags are listed in Table 289.
Table 289. Transmit FIFO status flags
Flag

Description

TXFIFOF

Set to high when all transmit FIFO words contain valid data.

TXFIFOE

Set to high when the transmit FIFO does not contain valid data.

TXFIFOHE

Set to high when half or more transmit FIFO words are empty.

TXUNDERR

Set to high when an underrun error occurs. This flag is cleared by writing to the
SDMMC Clear register.

Receive FIFO:
Data can be read from the receive FIFO when the DPSM is activated (DPSMACT = 1).
When IDMAEN = 1 the FIFO is fully handled by the IDMA.
When IDMAEN = 0 the FIFO is controlled by firmware via the AHB slave interface.When the
data path subunit receives a word of data, it drives the data on the write databus. The write
pointer is incremented after the write operation completes. On the read side, the contents of
the FIFO word pointed to by the current value of the read pointer is driven onto the read
databus. The receive FIFO is accessible via sequential addresses.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1259

Secure digital input/output MultiMediaCard interface (SDMMC)

RM0456

The receive FIFO is handled in the following way:
1.

Write the data length into DATALENGTH and the block length in DBLOCKSIZE.
–

2.

Set the SDMMC in receive mode (DTDIR = 1).
–

3.

4.

6.

Configures the FIFO in receive mode.

Enable the DPSM transfer
–

either by sending a command from the CPSM with the CMDTRANS bit set

–

or by setting DTEN bit.

When (DPSMACT = 1) the FIFO is ready to receive data.
–

5.

For block data transfer (DTMODE = 0), DATALENGTH must be an integer multiple
of DBLOCKSIZE.

The DPSM writes the received data to the FIFO.
- The SDMMC keeps receiving data as long as FIFO is not full, hardware flow
control during the data transfer is used to prevent FIFO overrun.

Read data from the FIFO.
–

When the FIFO is handled by software, wait until the FIFO is half full (RXFIFOHF
flag), read data from the FIFO until FIFO is empty (RXFIFOE = 1).
- When last data has been received, read data from the FIFO until FIFO is empty
(DATAEND = 1).

–

When the FIFO is handled by the IDMA, the IDMA transfers the FIFO date.

SDMMC has completely received all data and the DPSM is disabled (DPSMACT = 0).

In case of a data transfer hold when IDMAEN = 0, the firmware must read the remaining
data until the FIFO is empty and reset the FIFO with the FIFORST register bit. This causes
the DPSM to go to the Idle state (DPSMACT = 0).
In case of a data transfer error when IDMAEN = 0, the firmware must stop reading the FIFO
and flush and reset the FIFO with the FIFORST register bit. This causes the DPSM to go to
the Idle state (DPSMACT = 0).
The receive FIFO status flags are listed in Table 290.
Table 290. Receive FIFO status flags
Flag

Description

RXFIFOF

Set to high when all receive FIFO words contain valid data

RXFIFOE

Set to high when the receive FIFO does not contain valid data.

RXFIFOHF

Set to high when half or more receive FIFO words contain valid data.

RXOVERR

Set to high when an overrun error occurs. This flag is cleared by writing to the
SDMMC Clear register.

CLKMUX unit
The CLKMUX selects the source for clock sdmmc_rx_ck to be used with the received data
and command response. The receive data clock source can be selected by the clock control
register bit SELCLKRX, between:

<!-- pagebreak -->

