RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Audio digital filter (ADF)
The application to select the wanted stream via the ADF bitstream matrix control register 0
(ADF_BSMX0CR). This selection is intended to be static.
Figure 366. BSMX overview

ADF
ADCITF[2,1]

BSMX

DFLT0

bs0_r
bs_flt0
bs0_f

SITF0

BSSEL

MSv63654V1

BSMX programming sequence example
The BSSEL[4:0] bitfield cannot be changed if the DFLT0 is enabled. The following steps are
needed to change the value of BSMX:
1.

40.4.7

Set DFLTEN of DFLT0 to 0.

2.

Wait for BSMXACTIVE = 0.

3.

Program BSSEL[4:0].

4.

Set DFLTEN of DFLT0 to 1.

Digital filter processing (DFLT)
The digital filter processing includes the following sub-blocks:
•

symbol remap (SBR)

•

clock skipper delay (DLY)

•

MCIC decimation filter that can be configured in Sinc4 or Sinc5

•

gain control (SCALE)

•

signal saturation (SAT)

•

reshape filter (RSFLT)

•

high-pass filter (HPF)

•

receive RXFIFO

Figure 367 shows the filter path configuration according to CICMOD[2:0]. Several
configuration bits are available to configure the digital filter to the application needs.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1674

Audio digital filter (ADF)

RM0456
Figure 367. DFLT overview
ADF

HPFC

RSFLTD

DFLT0

RSFLTBYP

HPFBYP

SCALE

1

1
0

Ļ

SAT

PCM[23:0]

HPF

SAT
RSFLT

0

SAT

DATSRC
RX
FIFO

Discard logic

FPCM frequency domain

100

'Ļ

MCIC4

100

101

'Ļ

MCIC5

101

11
DLY

SCALE

CICMOD
FRS frequency domain

10
0x

ĸ
-ĸ

From
ADCITF2
From
ADCITF1
From
BSMX

SBR
FBS frequency domain

adf_proc_ck clock domain
MSv63655V1

Symbol remap and source selection
The symbol remap (SBR) converts the bitstream selected by the BSMX into data usable by
the filter path. More especially:
•

The high levels are converted into a 16-bit signed number + 1.

•

The low levels are converted into a 16-bit signed number - 1.

The signal source of the digital filter can be selected via DATSRC[1:0] between the two
following:
•

data coming from the BSMX

•

data coming from one of the ADC interfaces (ADCITF2 or 1)

Programmable micro-delay control (DLY)
The digital filter has a delay line that allows the timing adjustment of each stream with the
resolution of the bitstream clock.
This feature is particularly helpful in the case of microphone beam forming applications
where delays smaller than the final sampling rate must be applied to the incoming stream.
This feature can be used when the ADF is synchronized with another MDF instance (if
present in the product) for a beam forming application for example.
The delay is performed by discarding a given number of samples from the selected input
stream, before samples enter into the CIC filter. This data discarding is done by skipping a
given number of data strobe, preventing the CIC filter to take into account those data.
When the wanted amount of data strobe has been skipped, the next incoming samples are
strobed normally.
Table 368 shows an example on how to apply dynamically small delay to an incoming
stream. For simplification, the CIC filter performs a decimation by height in this example.
CIC1 represents the CIC included in the ADF and CIC0 represents a filter from another MDF
instance (if present in the product).

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Audio digital filter (ADF)
Figure 368. Programmable delay

CIC0 input

a0

a1

a2

a3

a4

a5

a6

a7

a8

a9 a10 a11 a12 a13 a14 a15 a16 a17 a18 a19 a20 a21 a22 a23 a24 a25 a26 a27 a28 a29 a30 a31

b0

b1

b2

b3

b4

b5

b6

b7

b8

b9 b10 b11 b12 b13 b14 b15 b16 b17 b18 b19 b20 b21 b22 b23 b24 b25 b26 b27 b28 b29 b30 b31

CIC0 data strobe

CIC1 input
CIC1 data strobe
Decimation
counter of CIC0

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

0

Decimation
counter of CIC1

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

0

CIC0 output

1

2

CIC(xxx)
Sample N-2

CIC1 output

3

4

1

5

6

7

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

2

3

4

5

6

7

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

0

1

2

3

4

CIC(a[7:0])

CIC(a[15:8])

Sample N-1
CIC(xxx)

Sample N-2

Sample N
CIC(b[7:0])

Sample N-1

b10, b11, b12 are ignored.

CIC(a[23:16])
Sample N+1

CIC(b8, b9, b[18:13])
Sample N

CIC(b[26:19])
Sample N+1

Sample delivery is delayed.
MSv62662V1

The CIC of the ADF (CIC1) receives a command in order to skip three incoming samples.
So the input samples named b10, b11 and b12 are not processed by CIC1. As a
consequence, the output sample N+1 generated by CIC0 is built from input samples
a[23:16] while the sample N+1 of CIC1 is built from input samples b[26:19].
Finally, the non-skipped data stream looks delayed by three bitstream periods.
Note:

When the input data strobes are skipped, the decimation counter remains frozen. As a
consequence, the samples delivered by the CIC1 are a bit delayed.
The following steps are needed to program the amount of bitstream clock periods to be
skipped:
1.

Wait for SKPBF equal to 0.

2.

Write SKPDLY[6:0] to the wanted number of bitstream clock periods to be skipped. The
SKPBF flag goes immediately to 1, indicating that the delay value entered into
SKPDLY[6:0] is under process.
–

If the DFLT0 is not yet enabled (DFLTEN = 0), then the DLY logic waits for
DFLTEN = 1. When the application sets DFLTEN to 1, the DLY logic starts to skip
the amount of wanted data strobes.

–

If the DFLT0 is already enabled (DFLTEN = 1), then the DLY logic immediately
starts to skip the amount of wanted data strobes.

When the ADF skipped the amount of wanted data strobes, then SKPBF goes back
to 0.
3.

If the application needs to skip more data strobes, then the operation must be restarted
from step 1.

The effect of the delay performed with this mechanism is cumulative as long as the ADF is
enabled. If the application performs a D1 delay followed by a D2 delay, then all other active
filters are delayed by D1 + D2.
Note:

If SKPDLY[6:0] is written when SKPBF = 1, the write operation is ignored.

Cascaded-integrator-comb (CIC) filter
The CIC digital filters are an efficient implementation of low-pass filters, often used for
decimation and interpolation. The CIC frequency response is equal to a SincN function, this
is why they are often called Sinc filters.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1674

Audio digital filter (ADF)

RM0456

The SincN digital filter embedded into the ADF can be configurable in Sinc4 or Sinc5,
according to CICMOD:
•

If CICMOD[2:0] = 4, Sinc4 is selected.

•

If CICMOD[2:0] = 5, Sinc5 is selected.

The filters have the following transfer function:

⎛ 1 – z –D⎞
H ( z ) = ⎜ ----------------⎟
⎝ 1 – z–1 ⎠

N

where N can be 4 or 5, and D is the decimation ratio. D is equal to MCICD+1.
Figure 369. CIC4 and CIC5 frequency response with decimation ratio = 32 or 16

MSv63614V1

CIC output data size
The size of samples delivered by the CIC (DSCIC), depends on the following parameters:
•

CIC order (N)

•

CIC decimation ratio (D)

•

data size of the input stream (DSIN)

The CIC order and decimation ratio must be programmed in order to insure that the data
size does not exceed the 26-bit CIC capability.
The following formula gives the output data size (DSCIC) according to the parameters
above.

<!-- pagebreak -->

