RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

43.4

LCD-TFT display controller (LTDC)

LTDC programmable parameters
The LTDC controller provides flexible configurable parameters. It can be enabled or
disabled through the LTDC_GCR register.

LTDC global configuration parameters
Synchronous timings
The figure below presents the configurable timing parameters generated by the
synchronous timings generator block presented in the block diagram Figure 407. It
generates the horizontal and vertical synchronization timings panel signals, the pixel clock
and the data enable signals.
Figure 408. LTDC synchronous timings
Total width
HFP

HSYNC
width

HBP
Active width

VSYNC width
VBP
Data1, Line1
Total height

43.4.1

Active display area
Active height

Data(n), Line(n)
VFP
Note: HBP and HFP are respectively the horizontal back porch and front porch period.
VBP and VFP are respectively the vertical back porch and front porch period.

MSv19674V2

The LTDC programmable synchronous timings are the following:
•

HSYNC and VSYNC width: horizontal and vertical synchronization width, configured by
programming a value of HSYNC width - 1 and VSYNC width - 1 in the LTDC_SSCR
register

•

HBP and VBP: horizontal and vertical synchronization back porch width, configured by
programming the accumulated value HSYNC width + HBP - 1 and the accumulated
value VSYNC width + VBP - 1 in the LTDC_BPCR register.

•

Active width and active height: the active width and active height are configured by
programming the accumulated value HSYNC width + HBP + active width - 1 and the

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

1741

LCD-TFT display controller (LTDC)

RM0456

accumulated value VSYNC width + VBP + active height - 1 in the LTDC_AWCR
register.

Note:

•

Total width: the total width is configured by programming the accumulated value
HSYNC width + HBP + active width + HFP - 1 in the LTDC_TWCR register. The HFP is
the horizontal front porch period.

•

Total height: the total height is configured by programming the accumulated value
VSYNC height + VBP + active height + VFP - 1 in the LTDC_TWCR register. The VFP
is the vertical front porch period.

When the LTDC is enabled, the timings generated start with X/Y = 0/0 position as the first
horizontal synchronization pixel in the vertical synchronization area and following the back
porch, active data display area and the front porch.
When the LTDC is disabled, the timing generator block is reset to X = total width - 1,
Y = total height - 1 and held the last pixel before the vertical synchronization phase and the
FIFO are flushed. Therefore only blanking data is output continuously.

Example of synchronous timings configuration
LTDC timings (must be extracted from panel datasheet):
•

horizontal and vertical synchronization width: 0xA pixels and 0x2 lines

•

horizontal and vertical back porch: 0x14 pixels and 0x2 lines

•

active width and active height: 0x140 pixels, 0xF0 lines (320x240)

•

horizontal front porch: 0xA pixels

•

vertical front porch: 0x4 lines

The programmed values in the LTDC timings registers are:
•

LTDC_SSCR register to be programmed to 0x00090001
(HSW[11:0] is 0x9 and VSH[10:0] is 0x1)

•

LTDC_BPCR register to be programmed to 0x001D0003
(AHBP[11:0] is 0x1D (0xA+ 0x13) and AVBP[10:0]A is 0x3 (0x2 + 0x1))

•

LTDC_AWCR register to be programmed to 0x015D00F3
(AAW[11:0] is 0x15D (0xA +0x14 +0x13F) and AAH[10:0] is 0xF3 (0x2 + 0x2 + 0xEF))

•

LTDC_TWCR register to be programmed to 0x00000167
(TOTALW[11:0] is 0x167 (0xA +0x14 +0x140 + 0x9))

•

LTDC_THCR register to be programmed to 0x000000F7
(TOTALH[10:0]is 0xF7 (0x2 +0x2 + 0xF0 + 3))

Programmable polarity
The horizontal and vertical synchronization, data enable and pixel clock output signals
polarity can be programmed to active high or active low through the LTDC_GCR register.

Background color
A constant background color (RGB888) can programmed through the LTDC_BCCR register.
It is used for blending with the bottom layer.

Dithering
The dithering pseudo-random technique using an LFSR is used to add a small random
value (threshold) to each pixel color channel (R, G or B) value, thus rounding up the MSB in

<!-- pagebreak -->

