1973

AES hardware accelerator (AES)
Note:

RM0456

AES is not disabled after a WRERR error detection and continues processing.
An interrupt is generated if the RWEIE bit of the AES_IER register is set. For more details,
refer to Section 49.5: AES interrupts.
The WRERR and RWEIF flag is cleared by setting the RWEIF bit of the AES_ICR register.

Key error interrupt flag (KEIF)
Failure to load a key into key registers, sets the KEIF flag of the AES_ISR register and
clears the KEYVALID bit of the AES_SR register.
The KEIF flag is cleared with corresponding bit of the AES_ICR register. An interrupt is
generated if the KEIE bit of the AES_IER register is set. For more details, refer to
Section 49.5: AES interrupts.
The possible sources of key errors are:
•

Key writing sequence error: an incorrect sequence has been detected when writing key
registers. See Section 49.4.15: AES key registers for details.

•

Key sharing size mismatch: error is triggered when KMOD[1:0] = 10 and application
sets a KEYSIZE information in AES peripheral that does not match the KEYSIZE
stored in SAES peripheral

•

Key sharing error: the copy of key registers from SAES peripheral to AES failed. See
Section 49.4.13: AES operation with shared keys for details.

Upon a key sharing error, reset both AES and SAES peripherals through the IPRST bit of
their corresponding control register, then restart the key sharing sequence.
Note:

For any key error, clear KEIF flag prior to re-configuring AES.

49.5

AES interrupts
Individual maskable interrupt sources generated by the AES peripheral signal the following
events:
•

computation completed

•

read error

•

write error

•

key error

These sources are combined into a common interrupt signal from the AES peripheral that
connects to the Arm® Cortex® interrupt controller. Each can individually be
enabled/disabled, by setting/clearing the corresponding enable bit of the AES_IER register,
and cleared by setting the corresponding bit of the AES_ICR register.
The status of each can be read from the AES_SR and AES_ISR registers.
Table 475 gives a summary of the interrupt sources, their event flags and enable bits.

<!-- pagebreak -->

