1973

AES hardware accelerator (AES)

RM0456

49.7

AES registers

49.7.1

AES control register (AES_CR)
Address offset: 0x00

30

28

27

Res.

25

24

23

KMOD[1:0]

rw

22

21

20

NPBLB[3:0]

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

Res.

GCMPH[1:0]

DMAINEN

Res.

26

DMAOUTEN

IPRST

29

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

rw

rw

rw

rw

19

18

17

16

Res.

Res.

CHMOD[2]

31

KEYSIZE

Reset value: 0x0000 0000

rw
3

CHMOD[1:0]

MODE[1:0]

rw

rw

rw

rw

2

rw
1

DATATYPE[1:0]

rw

rw

0

EN

rw

Bit 31 IPRST: AES peripheral software reset
Setting the bit resets the AES peripheral, putting all registers to their default values, except the
IPRST bit itself. Hence, any key-relative data is lost. For this reason, it is recommended to set the bit
before handing over the AES to a less secure application.
The bit must be low while writing any configuration registers.
Bits 30:26 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 25:24 KMOD[1:0]: Key mode selection
The bitfield defines how the AES key can be used by the application:
00: Normal key
10: Shared key from SAES co-processor
Others: Reserved
With normal key selection, the key registers are freely usable, no specific usage or protection
applies to AES_DIN and AES_DOUT registers.
With selection of shared key from SAES co-processor, the AES peripheral automatically loads its
key registers with the data stored in the key registers of the SAES peripheral. The key value is
available in key registers when BUSY bit is cleared and KEYVALID is set in the AES_SR register.
Key error flag KEIF is set otherwise in the AES_ISR register.
The bitfield must be set only when KEYSIZE is correct, and when a shared key decryption sequence
has been successfully completed in SAES co-processor.
Attempts to write the bitfield are ignored when the BUSY flag of AES_SR register is set, as well as
when the EN bit of the AES_CR register is set before the write access and it is not cleared by that
write access.
Bits 23:20 NPBLB[3:0]: Number of padding bytes in last block
The bitfield sets the number of padding bytes in last block of payload:
0000: All bytes are valid (no padding)
0001: Padding for one least-significant byte of last block
...
1111: Padding for 15 least-significant bytes of last block
Bit 19 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

AES hardware accelerator (AES)

Bit 18 KEYSIZE: Key size selection
This bitfield defines the length of the key used in the AES cryptographic core, in bits:
0: 128
1: 256
Attempts to write the bit are ignored when the BUSY flag of AES_SR register is set, as well as when
the EN bit of the AES_CR register is set before the write access and it is not cleared by that write
access.
Bit 17 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 15 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 14:13 GCMPH[1:0]: GCM or CCM phase selection
This bitfield selects the phase of GCM, GMAC or CCM algorithm:
00: Init phase
01: Header phase
10: Payload phase
11: Final phase
The bitfield has no effect if other than GCM, GMAC or CCM algorithms are selected (through the
ALGOMODE bitfield).
Bit 12 DMAOUTEN: DMA output enable
This bit enables/disables data transferring with DMA, in the output phase:
0: Disable
1: Enable
When the bit is set, DMA requests are automatically generated by AES during the output data
phase. This feature is only effective when Mode 1 or Mode 3 is selected through the MODE[1:0]
bitfield. It is not effective for Mode 2 (key derivation).
Bit 11 DMAINEN: DMA input enable
This bit enables/disables data transferring with DMA, in the input phase:
0: Disable
1: Enable
When the bit is set, DMA requests are automatically generated by AES during the input data phase.
This feature is only effective when Mode 1 or Mode 3 is selected through the MODE[1:0] bitfield. It is
not effective for Mode 2 (key derivation).
Bits 10:7 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 16, 6:5 CHMOD[2:0]: Chaining mode selection
This bitfield selects the AES chaining mode:
000: Electronic codebook (ECB)
001: Cipher-block chaining (CBC)
010: Counter mode (CTR)
011: Galois counter mode (GCM) and Galois message authentication code (GMAC)
100: Counter with CBC-MAC (CCM)
others: Reserved
Attempts to write the bitfield are ignored when the BUSY flag of AES_SR register is set, as well as
when the EN bit of the AES_CR register is set before the write access and it is not cleared by that
write access.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

