2015

Secure AES coprocessor (SAES)

RM0456

RNGEIE bit of the SAES_IER register is set. For more details, refer to Section 50.5: SAES
interrupts.
Upon an RNG error:

Note:

•

Verify that the RNG peripheral AHB clock is enabled and no noise source (or seed)
error is pending in this peripheral.

•

Clear the RNGEIF bit of the SAES_ISR register, or reset the peripheral by setting the
IPRST bit of the SAES_CR register. The clearance of the BUSY flag in the SAES_SR
register then indicates the completion of the random number fetch from RNG.

To avoid RNGEIF errors, it is recommended to activate the RNG AHB clock each time
SAES AHB clock is activated.

About DPA errors
An unexpected error triggers an SAES internal tamper event in the TAMP peripheral, and
stops any SAES co-processor processing.
To resume normal operation, application must reset the SAES peripheral through RCC or
global reset.

50.5

SAES interrupts
Individual maskable interrupt sources generated by the SAES peripheral signal the following
events:
•

computation completed

•

read error

•

write error

•

key error

•

RNG error

These sources are combined into a common interrupt signal from the SAES peripheral that
connects to the Arm® Cortex® interrupt controller. Each can individually be
enabled/disabled, by setting/clearing the corresponding enable bit of the SAES_IER
register, and cleared by setting the corresponding bit of the SAES_ISR register.
The status of each can be read from the SAES_SR and SAES_ISR registers.
Table 482 gives a summary of the interrupt sources, their event flags and enable bits.
Table 482. SAES interrupt requests
Interrupt
acronym

SAES

SAES interrupt event

Event flag

Enable bit

Interrupt clear
method

computation completed flag

CCF

CCFIE

set CCF(1)

read error flag

RDERR(2)

write error flag

WRERR(2)

RWEIE

set RWEIF(1)

key error flag

KEIF

KEIE

set KEIF(1)

RNG error flag

RNGEIF

RNGEIE

set RNGEIF(1)

1. Bit of the SAES_ISR register.
2. Flag of the SAES_SR register, mirrored by the flag RWEIF of the SAES_ISR register.

<!-- pagebreak -->

