1.

Clear the DMAE bit to disable the DMA interface. The hash peripheral automatically
fetches enough data using the DMA to complete the current input block and launch a
hash process.

2.

Wait until the last DMA transfer is complete (DMAS = 0 in HASH_SR).

3.

Disable the DMA channel.

4.

In Polling or Interrupt mode (recommended), wait until the hash processor is ready (no
block is being processed), that is wait for DINIS = 1 in HASH_SR. If DCIS is also set in
this register the hash result is available and the context swapping is useless. Else go to
step 5.

5.

Save HASH_IMR, HASH_STR, HASH_CR, and HASH_CSR0 to HASH_CSR37
registers. HASH_CSR38 to HASH_CSR53 registers must also be saved if an HMAC
operation was ongoing.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Hash processor (HASH)
To resume the processing of a message using DMA, proceed as follows:

51.4.9

1.

Reconfigure the DMA controller so that it proceeds with the transfer of the message up
to the end if it is not interrupted again

2.

Program the values saved in memory to HASH_IMR, HASH_STR and HASH_CR
registers.

3.

Initialize the hash processor by setting the INIT bit in the HASH_CR register.

4.

Program the values saved in memory to the HASH_CSRx registers.

5.

Restart the processing from the point where it was interrupted by setting the DMAE bit.

HASH DMA interface
The HASH supports both single and fixed DMA burst transfers of four words.
The hash processor provides an interface to connect to the DMA controller. This DMA can
be used to write data to the HASH by setting the DMAE bit in the HASH_CR register. When
this bit is set, the HASH initiates a DMA request each time a block has to be written to the
HASH_DIN register.
Once four 32-bit words have been received, the HASH automatically triggers a new request
to the DMA. For more information refer to Section 51.4.5: Message digest computing.
Before starting the DMA transfer, the software must program the number of valid bits in the
last word that is copied into HASH_DIN register. This is done by writing in HASH_STR
register the following value:
NBLW[4:0] = Len(Message)% 32 where “x%32” gives the remainder of x divided
by 32.
The DMAS bit of the HASH_SR register provides information on the DMA interface activity.
This bit is set with DMAE and cleared when DMAE is cleared and no DMA transfer is
ongoing.

Note:

No interrupt is associated to DMAS bit.
When MDMAT is set, the size of the transfer must be a multiple of four words.

51.4.10

HASH error management
No error flags are generated by the hash processor.

51.4.11

HASH processing time
Table 487 summarizes the time required to process an intermediate block for each mode of
operation.
Table 487. Processing time (in clock cycle)
Mode of operation

FIFO load(1)

Computation phase

Total

MD5

16

50

66

SHA-1

16

66

82

16

50

66

SHA2-224
SHA2-256

1. Add the time required to load the block into the processor.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

