•

Illegal read to OTFDEC_RxKEYR registers

•

Illegal write to OTFDEC_RxKEYR registers while CONFIGLOCK or KEYLOCK = 1 in
OTFDEC_RxCFGR, while the access is secure. If the security is disabled in the
product, the same error occurs when the access is nonsecure.

•

Illegal write to OTFDEC_RxCFGR, OTFDEC_RxSTARTADDR,
OTFDEC_RxENDADDR or OTFDEC_RxNONCER registers while CONFIGLOCK = 1
in OTFDEC_RxCFGR (x = 1 to 4), while the access is secure. If the security is disabled
in the product the same error occurs when the access is nonsecure.

•

Illegal read to an execute-only region (MODE[1:0] = 11). Such illegal request returns
0x0, without bus error.

•

Execution request to a region while encryption is enabled (ENC = 1). The request
returns 0x0, without bus error.

•

Key error: read request to an encrypted region while its key registers are null or not
properly initialized (KEYCRC = 0x0). Source of the error can be an incorrect key
loading sequence (see KEYCRC in OTFDEC_RxCFGR) or it can be an abort event

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

On-the-fly decryption engine (OTFDEC)
(tamper detection, unauthorized debug connection, untrusted boot, RDP level
regression). Such read request returns 0x0, without bus error.
•

Write to any registers while the access is nonsecure, if TrustZone security is enabled in
the product.
This last error is managed and cleared through TrustZone interrupt controller, as
described in the GTZC section of the product reference manual.

For these errors (except the last one), an interrupt can be generated if the SEIE, XONEIE or
KEIE bit is set in OTFDEC_IER register (see Section 52.4).
Note:

After a key error, OTFDEC keys must be properly initialized again, and a reset of OTFDEC
may be needed if registers are locked.

52.4

OTFDEC interrupts
There are three independent maskable interrupt sources generated by the OTFDEC,
signaling following security events:
•

Illegal read or write access to keys (SEIF flag), see Section 52.3.6

•

Illegal write to a region configuration while CONFIGLOCK = 1 (SEIF flag), see
Section 52.3.6

•

Read access to an execute-only region (MODE[1:0] = 11), triggering the XONEIF flag

•

Executing while encryption is enabled (XONEIF flag)

•

Key error (encrypted regions read as zero) triggering the KEIF flag, see Section 52.3.6.

Interrupt sources are connected to the same global interrupt request signal.
OTFDEC interrupt sources can be enabled/disabled by setting the corresponding SEIE,
XONEIE or KEIE bit in OTFDEC_IER, as described in Table 491. Status of the interrupt
event is found in OTFDEC_ISR, and this event can be cleared using OTFDEC_ICR.
Table 491. OTFDEC interrupt requests
Interrupt
acronym

OTFDEC

Interrupt event

Event flag(1)

Enable
control bit

Interrupt clear method

Security error

SEIF

SEIE

Set SEIF in OTFDEC_ICR

Execute-only
Execute while
encryption

XONEIF

XONEIE

Set XONEIF in OTFDEC_ICR

Key error

KEIF

KEIE

Set KEIF in OTFDEC_ICR

1. The event flags are found in the OTFDEC_ISR register.

52.5

OTFDEC application information

52.5.1

OTFDEC initialization process
Introduction
One key aspect of OTFDEC is the trusted initialization of its registers, as it involves secret
keys. Two trusted initialization schemes are recommended here below.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2060

On-the-fly decryption engine (OTFDEC)
Note:

RM0456

Those sequences are for production code, as during firmware development, it is not always
recommended to lock the key or the region configuration.
Writes to configuration registers are effective when the configuration locks allow it, even if
the region is enabled.

Initialization scheme 1: one key for all regions
In this scheme, one entity owns the secret key used to decrypt the four protected regions.
The recommended OTFDEC configuration sequence is described below:

Caution:

1.

For x = 1 to 4, write the correct MODE[1:0] value in OTFDEC_RxCFGR.

2.

For x = 1 to 4, program OTFDEC_RxKEYR registers using the sequence described in
KEYCRC (to have a valid CRC). Warning as key registers are write only.

3.

For x = 1 to 4, check the key CRC. If OK, set KEYLOCK bit in OTFDEC_RxCFGR. This
bit cannot be cleared (key registers in this region x are no more writable).

4.

To do to decrypt a region x (task that does not necessarily have to be performed by the
entity that owns the decryption keys):
a)

Verify if the key CRC corresponds to the encrypted binary stored in the region.

b)

Fill the detailed information corresponding to this binary (nonce, start address, end
address, version number).

c)

Enable decryption of this region using REG_EN.

d)

Set CONFIGLOCK bit in OTFDEC_RxCFGR. This bit cannot be cleared (the
region configuration is no more writable).

For a given region, when MODE bits are changed, the key registers and associated CRC
are cleared by hardware. As a consequence, step 1 above must be done before step 2, and
MODE bits must not be modified after step 2.

Initialization scheme 2: one key per region
In this scheme, one entity can own the secret used to decrypt one (or more) protected
region. The recommended OTFDEC configuration sequence is described below:
1.

Caution:

<!-- pagebreak -->

