RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Table 543. System break interconnect
tim_sys_brk
inputs

TIM1/TIM8/TIM20

Enable bit in SYSCFG_CFGR2
register

tim_sys_brk0

Cortex®-M33 LOCKUP

CLL

tim_sys_brk1

Programmable voltage detector (PVD)

PVDL

tim_sys_brk2

SRAM double ECC error

SPL

tim_sys_brk3

Flash memory double ECC error

ECCL

tim_sys_brk4

Clock Security System (CSS)

None (always enabled)

The table below lists the internal sources connected to the tim_ocref_clr input multiplexer.
Table 544. Interconnect to the ocref_clr input multiplexer
Timer OCREF clear signal assignment
Timer OCREF clear signal
TIM1

TIM8

tim_ocref_clr0

comp1_out

comp1_out

tim_ocref_clr1

comp2_out(1)

comp2_out(1)

tim_ocref_clr2
tim_ocref_clr3
tim_ocref_clr4

Reserved

tim_ocref_clr5
tim_ocref_clr6
tim_ocref_clr7

1. This connection is not present in STM32U535/545 as COMP2 is not available.

54.3.3

Time-base unit
The main block of the programmable advanced-control timer is a 16-bit counter with its
related autoreload register. The counter can count up, down or both up and down. The
counter clock can be divided by a prescaler.
The counter, the autoreload register and the prescaler register can be written or read by
software, even when the counter is running.
The time-base unit includes:
•

Counter register (TIMx_CNT)

•

Prescaler register (TIMx_PSC)

•

Autoreload register (TIMx_ARR)

•

Repetition counter register (TIMx_RCR)

The autoreload register is preloaded. Writing to or reading from the autoreload register
accesses the preload register. The content of the preload register are transferred into the
shadow register permanently or at each update event (UEV), depending on the autoreload
preload enable bit (ARPE) in TIMx_CR1 register. The update event is sent when the counter
reaches the overflow (or underflow when downcounting) and if the UDIS bit equals 0 in the

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

TIMx_CR1 register. It can also be generated by software. The generation of the update
event is described in detailed for each configuration.
The counter is clocked by the prescaler output tim_cnt_ck, which is enabled only when the
counter enable bit (CEN) in TIMx_CR1 register is set (refer also to the slave mode controller
description to get more details on counter enabling).
Note:

The counter starts counting 1 clock cycle after setting the CEN bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.

Prescaler description
The prescaler divides the counter clock frequency by any factor from 1 to 65536. It is based
on a 16-bit counter controlled through a 16-bit register (in the TIMx_PSC register). It can be
changed on the fly as this control register is buffered. The new prescaler ratio is taken into
account at the next update event.
Figure 510 and Figure 511 give some examples of the counter behavior when the prescaler
ratio is changed on the fly.
Figure 510. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 2
tim_psc_ck

CEN
tim_cnt_ck

Counter register

F7

F8

F9

FA FB FC

01

00

02

03

Update event (UEV)

Prescaler control register

0

1

Write a new value in TIMx_PSC
Prescaler buffer

0

Prescaler counter

0

1

0

1

0

1

0

1

0

1
MSv50998V1

<!-- pagebreak -->

