RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 528. Counter timing diagram, Update event with ARPE = 1 (counter overflow)

tim_psc_ck

CEN
tim_cnt_ck
Counter register

F7

F8

F9

FA

FB FC

36

35

34

33

32

31

30

2F

Counter overflow
Update event (UEV)

Update interrupt flag
(UIF)
Auto-reload preload
register

FD

36

Write a new value in TIMx_ARR
Auto-reload active
FD
register

36
MSv62315V1

54.3.5

Repetition counter
Section 54.3.3: Time-base unit describes how the update event (UEV) is generated with
respect to the counter overflows/underflows. It is actually generated only when the repetition
counter has reached zero. This can be useful when generating PWM signals.
This means that data are transferred from the preload registers to the shadow registers
(TIMx_ARR autoreload register, TIMx_PSC prescaler register, but also TIMx_CCRx
capture/compare registers in compare mode) every N+1 counter overflows or underflows,
where N is the value in the TIMx_RCR repetition counter register.
The repetition counter is decremented:
•

At each counter overflow in upcounting mode,

•

At each counter underflow in downcounting mode,

•

At each counter overflow and at each counter underflow in center-aligned mode.
Although this limits the maximum number of repetition to 32768 PWM cycles, it makes
it possible to update the duty cycle twice per PWM period. When refreshing compare
registers only once per PWM period in center-aligned mode, maximum resolution is
2xTck, due to the symmetry of the pattern.

The repetition counter is an autoreload type; the repetition rate is maintained as defined by
the TIMx_RCR register value (refer to Figure 529). When the update event is generated by
software (by setting the UG bit in TIMx_EGR register) or by hardware through the slave
mode controller, it occurs immediately whatever the value of the repetition counter is and the
repetition counter is reloaded with the content of the TIMx_RCR register.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

