2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

In capture mode, captures are actually done in the shadow register, which is copied into the
preload register.
In compare mode, the content of the preload register is copied into the shadow register
which is compared to the counter.

54.3.9

Input capture mode
In Input capture mode, the capture/compare registers (TIMx_CCRx) are used to latch the
value of the counter after a transition detected by the corresponding ICx signal. When a
capture occurs, the corresponding CCXIF flag (TIMx_SR register) is set and an interrupt or
a DMA request can be sent if they are enabled. If a capture occurs while the CCxIF flag was
already high, then the overcapture flag CCxOF (TIMx_SR register) is set. CCxIF can be
cleared by software by writing it to 0 or by reading the captured data stored in the
TIMx_CCRx register. CCxOF is cleared when it is written with 0.
The following example shows how to capture the counter value in TIMx_CCR1 when tim_ti1
input rises. To do this, use the following procedure:
•

Select the active input: TIMx_CCR1 must be linked to the tim_ti1 input, so write the
CC1S bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register. As soon as CC1S becomes different
from 00, the channel is configured in input, and the TIMx_CCR1 register becomes
read-only.

•

Program the appropriate input filter duration in relation with the signal connected to the
timer (when the input is one of the tim_tix (ICxF bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register). Let’s
imagine that, when toggling, the input signal is not stable during at must five internal
clock cycles. We must program a filter duration longer than these five clock cycles. We
can validate a transition on tim_ti1 when eight consecutive samples with the new level
have been detected (sampled at fDTS frequency). Then write IC1F bits to 0011 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register.

•

Select the edge of the active transition on the tim_ti1 channel by writing CC1P and
CC1NP bits to 0 in the TIMx_CCER register (rising edge in this case).

•

Program the input prescaler. In our example, we wish the capture to be performed at
each valid transition, so the prescaler is disabled (write IC1PS bits to 00 in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register).

•

Enable capture from the counter into the capture register by setting the CC1E bit in the
TIMx_CCER register.

•

If needed, enable the related interrupt request by setting the CC1IE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, and/or the DMA request by setting the CC1DE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register.

When an input capture occurs:
•

The TIMx_CCR1 register gets the value of the counter on the active transition.

•

CC1IF flag is set (interrupt flag). CC1OF is also set if at least two consecutive captures
occurred whereas the flag was not cleared.

•

An interrupt is generated depending on the CC1IE bit.

•

A DMA request is generated depending on the CC1DE bit.

In order to handle the overcapture, it is recommended to read the data before the
overcapture flag. This is to avoid missing an overcapture which may happen after reading
the flag and before reading the data.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

Note:

IC interrupt and/or DMA requests can be generated by software by setting the
corresponding CCxG bit in the TIMx_EGR register.

54.3.10

PWM input mode
This mode is used to measure both the period and the duty cycle of a PWM signal
connected to single tim_tix input:
•

The TIMx_CCR1 register holds the period value (interval between two consecutive
rising edges).

•

The TIM_CCR2 register holds the pulsewidth (interval between two consecutive rising
and falling edges.

This mode is a particular case of input capture mode. The set-up procedure is similar with
the following differences:
•

Two ICx signals are mapped on the same tim_tixfp1 input.

•

These two ICx signals are active on edges with opposite polarity.

•

One of the two tim_tixfp signals is selected as trigger input and the slave mode
controller is configured in reset mode.

The period and the pulsewidth of a PWM signal applied on tim_ti1 can be measured using
the following procedure:
•

Select the active input for TIMx_CCR1: write the CC1S bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (tim_ti1 selected).

•

Select the active polarity for tim_ti1fp1 (used both for capture in TIMx_CCR1 and
counter clear): write the CC1P and CC1NP bits to 0 (active on rising edge).

•

Select the active input for TIMx_CCR2: write the CC2S bits to 10 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (tim_ti1 selected).

•

Select the active polarity for tim_ti1fp2 (used for capture in TIMx_CCR2): write the
CC2P and CC2NP bits to CC2P/CC2NP = 10 (active on falling edge).

•

Select the valid trigger input: write the TS bits to 00101 in the TIMx_SMCR register
(tim_ti1fp1 selected).

•

Configure the slave mode controller in reset mode: write the SMS bits to 0100 in the
TIMx_SMCR register.

•

Enable the captures: write the CC1E and CC2E bits to 1 in the TIMx_CCER register.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 540. PWM input mode timing
tim_ti1

TIMx_CNT

0004

0000

0001

0002

TIMx_CCR1

0004

TIMx_CCR2

0002

IC1 capture
IC2 capture
reset counter

0003

0004

IC2 capture
pulse width
measurement

0000

IC1 capture
pulse width
measurement
MSv62325V1

54.3.11

Forced output mode
In output mode (CCxS bits = 00 in the TIMx_CCMRx register), each output compare signal
(tim_ocxref and then tim_ocx/tim_ocxn) can be forced to active or inactive level directly by
software, independently of any comparison between the output compare register and the
counter.
To force an output compare signal (tim_ocxref/tim_ocx) to its active level, user just needs to
write 0101 in the OCxM bits in the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register. Thus tim_ocxref is
forced high (tim_ocxref is always active high) and tim_ocx get opposite value to CCxP
polarity bit.
For example: CCxP = 0 (tim_ocx active high) => tim_ocx is forced to high level.
The tim_ocxref signal can be forced low by writing the OCxM bits to 0100 in the
TIMx_CCMRx register.
Anyway, the comparison between the TIMx_CCRx shadow register and the counter is still
performed and allows the flag to be set. Interrupt and DMA requests can be sent
accordingly. This is described in the output compare mode section below.

54.3.12

Output compare mode
This function is used to control an output waveform or indicate when a period of time has
elapsed. Channels 1 to 4 can be output, while channel 5 and 6 are only available inside the
microcontroller (for instance, for compound waveform generation or for ADC triggering).
When a match is found between the capture/compare register and the counter, the output
compare function:
•

<!-- pagebreak -->

Assigns the corresponding output pin to a programmable value defined by the output
compare mode (OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register) and the output polarity (CCxP
bit in the TIMx_CCER register). The output pin can keep its level (OCXM = 0000), be

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
set active (OCxM = 0001), be set inactive (OCxM = 0010) or can toggle (OCxM = 0011)
on match.
•

Sets a flag in the interrupt status register (CCxIF bit in the TIMx_SR register).

•

Generates an interrupt if the corresponding interrupt mask is set (CCXIE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register).

•

Sends a DMA request if the corresponding enable bit is set (CCxDE bit in the
TIMx_DIER register, CCDS bit in the TIMx_CR2 register for the DMA request
selection).

The TIMx_CCRx registers can be programmed with or without preload registers using the
OCxPE bit in the TIMx_CCMRx register.
In output compare mode, the update event UEV has no effect on tim_ocxref and tim_ocx
output. The timing resolution is one count of the counter. Output compare mode can also be
used to output a single pulse (in One-pulse mode).

Procedure
1.

Select the counter clock (internal, external, prescaler).

2.

Write the desired data in the TIMx_ARR and TIMx_CCRx registers.

3.

Set the CCxIE bit if an interrupt request is to be generated.

4.

Select the output mode. For example:

5.

–

Write OCxM = 0011 to toggle tim_ocx output pin when CNT matches CCRx

–

Write OCxPE = 0 to disable preload register

–

Write CCxP = 0 to select active high polarity

–

Write CCxE = 1 to enable the output

Enable the counter by setting the CEN bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.

The TIMx_CCRx register can be updated at any time by software to control the output
waveform, provided that the preload register is not enabled (OCxPE = 0, else TIMx_CCRx
shadow register is updated only at the next update event UEV). An example is given in
Figure 541.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 541. Output compare mode, toggle on tim_oc1
Write B201h in the CC1R register

CNT

0039

CCR1

003A

003B

B200

B201

B201

003A

tim_oc1ref = tim_oc1

Match detected on CCR1
Interrupt generated if enabled
MSv62326V1

54.3.13

PWM mode
Pulse width modulation mode is used to generate a signal with a frequency determined by
the value of the TIMx_ARR register and a duty cycle determined by the value of the
TIMx_CCRx register.
The PWM mode can be selected independently on each channel (one PWM per tim_ocx
output) by writing 0110 (PWM mode 1) or 0111 (PWM mode 2) in the OCxM bits in the
TIMx_CCMRx register. The corresponding preload register must be enabled by setting the
OCxPE bit in the TIMx_CCMRx register, and eventually the autoreload preload register (in
upcounting or center-aligned modes) by setting the ARPE bit in the TIMx_CR1 register.
As the preload registers are transferred to the shadow registers only when an update event
occurs, before starting the counter, all registers must be initialized by setting the UG bit in
the TIMx_EGR register.
tim_ocx polarity is software programmable using the CCxP bit in the TIMx_CCER register. It
can be programmed as active high or active low. tim_ocx output is enabled by a
combination of the CCxE, CCxNE, MOE, OSSI, and OSSR bits (TIMx_CCER and
TIMx_BDTR registers). Refer to the TIMx_CCER register description for more details.
In PWM mode (1 or 2), TIMx_CNT and TIMx_CCRx are always compared to determine
whether TIMx_CCRx ≤ TIMx_CNT or TIMx_CNT ≤ TIMx_CCRx (depending on the direction
of the counter).
The timer is able to generate PWM in edge-aligned mode or center-aligned mode
depending on the CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

PWM edge-aligned mode
•

Upcounting configuration
Upcounting is active when the DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is low. Refer to
Upcounting mode.
In the following example, the mode is PWM mode 1. The reference PWM signal
tim_ocxref is high as long as TIMx_CNT < TIMx_CCRx else it becomes low. If the
compare value in TIMx_CCRx is greater than the autoreload value (in TIMx_ARR) then
tim_ocxref is held at 1. If the compare value is zero then tim_ocxref is held at 0.
Figure 542 shows some edge-aligned PWM waveforms in an example where
TIMx_ARR = 8.
Figure 542. Edge-aligned PWM waveforms (ARR = 8)

1

0

Counter register

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

0

1

tim_ocxref
CCRx=4
CCxIF

tim_ocxref
CCRx=8
CCxIF

tim_ocxref

‘1’

CCRx>8
CCxIF

tim_ocxref

‘0’

CCRx=0
CCxIF
MSv62327V1

•

Downcounting configuration
Downcounting is active when DIR bit in TIMx_CR1 register is high. Refer to the
Downcounting mode
In PWM mode 1, the reference signal tim_ocxref is low as long as
TIMx_CNT > TIMx_CCRx else it becomes high. If the compare value in TIMx_CCRx is
greater than the autoreload value in TIMx_ARR, then tim_ocxref is held at 1. 0% PWM
is not possible in this mode.

PWM center-aligned mode
Center-aligned mode is active when the CMS bits in TIMx_CR1 register are different from
00 (all the remaining configurations having the same effect on the tim_ocxref/tim_ocx
signals). The compare flag is set when the counter counts up, when it counts down or both
when it counts up and down depending on the CMS bits configuration. The direction bit

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

(DIR) in the TIMx_CR1 register is updated by hardware and must not be changed by
software. Refer to Center-aligned mode (up/down counting).
Figure 543 shows some center-aligned PWM waveforms in an example where:
•

TIMx_ARR = 8

•

PWM mode is the PWM mode 1

•

The flag is set when the counter counts down corresponding to the center-aligned
mode 1 selected for CMS = 01 in TIMx_CR1 register.
Figure 543. Center-aligned PWM waveforms (ARR = 8)
Counter register

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

1

tim_ocxref
CCRx = 4
CMS=01
CMS=10
CMS=11

CCxIF

tim_ocxref
CCRx=7

CMS=10 or 11

CCxIF
tim_ocxref
CCRx=8

‘1’

CMS=01
CMS=10
CMS=11

CCxIF

tim_ocxref
CCRx>8

‘1’

CMS=01
CMS=10
CMS=11

CCxIF

tim_ocxref
CCRx=0
CCxIF

‘0’

CMS=01
CMS=10
CMS=11
MSv62328V1

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Hints on using center-aligned mode:
•

When starting in center-aligned mode, the current up-down configuration is used. It
means that the counter counts up or down depending on the value written in the DIR bit
in the TIMx_CR1 register. Moreover, the DIR and CMS bits must not be changed at the
same time by the software.

•

Writing to the counter while running in center-aligned mode is not recommended as it
can lead to unexpected results. In particular:

•

–

The direction is not updated if a value greater than the autoreload value is written
in the counter (TIMx_CNT > TIMx_ARR). For example, if the counter was counting
up, it continues to count up.

–

The direction is updated if 0 or the TIMx_ARR value is written in the counter but no
update event UEV is generated.

The safest way to use center-aligned mode is to generate an update by software
(setting the UG bit in the TIMx_EGR register) just before starting the counter and not to
write the counter while it is running.

Dithering mode
The PWM mode effective resolution can be increased by enabling the dithering mode, using
the DITHEN bit in the TIMx_CR1 register. This applies to both the CCR (for duty cycle
resolution increase) and ARR (for PWM frequency resolution increase).
The operating principle is to have the actual CCR (or ARR) value slightly changed (adding
or not one timer clock period) over 16 consecutive PWM periods, with predefined patterns.
This allows a 16-fold resolution increase, considering the average duty cycle or PWM
period. Figure 544 presents the dithering principle applied to four consecutive PWM cycles.
Figure 544. Dithering principle
Average duty cycle

7

5

DC = 7/5

DC = (7+¼)/5

DC = (7+½)/5

DC = (7+¾)/5

DC = 8/5
1 clock cycle

MSv45752V1

When the dithering mode is enabled, the register coding is changed as follows (see
Figure 545 for example):
•

The four LSBs are coding for the enhanced resolution part (fractional part).

•

The MSBs are left-shifted to the bits 19:4 and are coding for the base value.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Note:

RM0456

The following sequence must be followed when resetting the DITHEN bit:
1. CEN and ARPE bits must be reset.
2. The DITHEN bit must be reset.
3. The CCIF flags must be cleared.
4. The CEN bit can be set ( eventually with ARPE = 1).
Figure 545. Data format and register coding in dithering mode
b19

Register format in
dithering mode

b0
LSB: 4-bits
fractional part

MSB: 16-bits, integer part

b19

b0
326

Example
20

Base compare value is 20 during 16 periods

6

Additional 6 cycles are spread over the
16 periods
MSv45753V2

The minimum frequency is given by the following formula:
F Tim
F Tim
Resolution = ------------- ⇒ F pwmMin = -----------------------------------F pwm
Max Resolution
F Tim
Dithering mode disabled: F pwmMin = --------------65536
F Tim
Dithering mode enabled: F pwmMin = ----------------------------65535 + 15
-----16

Note:

The maximum TIMx_ARR and TIMxCCRy values are limited to 0xFFFEF in dithering mode
(corresponds to 65534 for the integer part and 15 for the dithered part).
As shown on Figure 546, the dithering mode is used to increase the PWM resolution
whatever the PWM frequency.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 546. PWM resolution vs frequency
PWM resolution

20-bit

16-bit
Dithering

No Dithering

PWM frequency

FPWM
min

MSv47464V2

The duty cycle and/or period changes are spread over 16 consecutive periods, as described
in Figure 547.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 547. PWM dithering pattern

Counter period

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

CCR1 value

Compare1 value

21

20

20

20

20

20

20

20

21

20

21

20

21

20

20

20

21

21

21

21

21

21

21

20

13

14

15

16

21

20

20

20

20

20

20

20

21

20

21

20

21

20

20

20

21

21

21

21

21

21

21

20

21

21

21

21

21

21

21

21

41

40

40

40

40

40

40

336

21

21

21

21

21

21

21

21

ARR value
Auto-Reload
value

12

334

CCR4 value

Compare4 value

11

326

CCR3 value

Compare3 value

10

322

CCR2 value

Compare2 value

9

643

41

40

40

40

41

40

40

40

40
MSv45755V1

The autoreload and compare values increments are spread following specific patterns
described in Table 545. The dithering sequence is done to have increments distributed as
evenly as possible and minimize the overall ripple.
Table 545. CCR and ARR register change dithering pattern
PWM period
LSB value

<!-- pagebreak -->

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

0000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0001

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0010

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0011

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0100

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

0101

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

0110

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Table 545. CCR and ARR register change dithering pattern (continued)
PWM period
LSB value
1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

0111

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

1000

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1001

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1010

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1011

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1100

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

1101

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

1110

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

1111

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

The dithering mode is also available in center-aligned PWM mode (CMS bits in TIMx_CR1
register are not equal to 00). In this case, the dithering pattern is applied over eight
consecutive PWM periods, considering the up and down counting phases as shown in
Figure 548.
Figure 548. Dithering effect on duty cycle in center-aligned PWM mode

No dithering

Dithering up

Dithering down
MSv50904V1

Table 546 shows how the dithering pattern is added in center-aligned PWM mode.
Table 546. CCR register change dithering pattern in center-aligned PWM mode
PWM period
LSB
value

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

0000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0001

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0010

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0011

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

0100

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

0101

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

-

-

0110

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Table 546. CCR register change dithering pattern in center-aligned PWM mode (continued)
PWM period
LSB
value

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

Up

Dn

0111

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

-

-

1000

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1001

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1010

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1011

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

-

+1

-

1100

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

1101

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

-

1110

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

1111

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

+1

-

54.3.14

Asymmetric PWM mode
Asymmetric mode allows two center-aligned PWM signals to be generated with a
programmable phase shift. While the frequency is determined by the value of the
TIMx_ARR register, the duty cycle and the phase-shift are determined by a pair of
TIMx_CCRx register. One register controls the PWM during up-counting, the second during
down counting, so that PWM is adjusted every half PWM cycle:
–

tim_oc1refc (or tim_oc2refc) is controlled by TIMx_CCR1 and TIMx_CCR2

–

tim_oc3refc (or tim_oc4refc) is controlled by TIMx_CCR3 and TIMx_CCR4

Asymmetric PWM mode can be selected independently on two channel (one tim_ocx output
per pair of CCR registers) by writing 1110 (Asymmetric PWM mode 1) or 1111 (Asymmetric
PWM mode 2) in the OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register.
Note:

The OCxM[3:0] bitfield is split into two parts for compatibility reasons, the most significant bit
is not contiguous with the three least significant ones.
When a given channel is used as asymmetric PWM channel, its complementary channel
can also be used. For instance, if an tim_oc1refc signal is generated on channel 1
(Asymmetric PWM mode 1), it is possible to output either the tim_oc2ref signal on channel
2, or an tim_oc2refc signal resulting from asymmetric PWM mode 1.
Figure 549 represents an example of signals that can be generated using asymmetric PWM
mode (channels 1 to 4 are configured in asymmetric PWM mode 2). Together with the
deadtime generator, this allows a full-bridge phase-shifted DC to DC converter to be
controlled.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 549. Generation of 2 phase-shifted PWM signals with 50% duty cycle

Counter register

0

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

1

tim_oc1refc
CCR1=0
CCR2=8
tim_oc3refc
CCR3=3
CCR4=5
MSv62329V1

54.3.15

Combined PWM mode
Combined PWM mode allows two edge or center-aligned PWM signals to be generated with
programmable delay and phase shift between respective pulses. While the frequency is
determined by the value of the TIMx_ARR register, the duty cycle and delay are determined
by the two TIMx_CCRx registers. The resulting signals, tim_ocxrefc, are made of an OR or
AND logical combination of two reference PWMs:
•

tim_oc1refc (or tim_oc2refc) is controlled by TIMx_CCR1 and TIMx_CCR2

•

tim_oc3refc (or tim_oc4refc) is controlled by TIMx_CCR3 and TIMx_CCR4

Combined PWM mode can be selected independently on two channels (one tim_ocx output
per pair of CCR registers) by writing 1100 (Combined PWM mode 1) or 1101 (Combined
PWM mode 2) in the OCxM bits in the TIMx_CCMRx register.
When a given channel is used as combined PWM channel, its complementary channel must
be configured in the opposite PWM mode (for instance, one in Combined PWM mode 1 and
the other in Combined PWM mode 2).
Note:

The OCxM[3:0] bitfield is split into two parts for compatibility reasons, the most significant bit
is not contiguous with the three least significant ones.
Figure 550 represents an example of signals that can be generated using combined PWM
mode, obtained with the following configuration:
•

Channel 1 is configured in Combined PWM mode 2.

•

Channel 2 is configured in PWM mode 1.

•

Channel 3 is configured in Combined PWM mode 2.

•

Channel 4 is configured in PWM mode 1.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 550. Combined PWM mode on channel 1 and 3

CCR2
CCR1
tim_oc1ref
tim_oc2ref
tim_oc1refc
tim_oc1refc = tim_oc1ref AND tim_oc2ref

CCR2
CCR1

tim_oc1ref
tim_oc2ref
tim_oc1refc
tim1_oc1refc = tim1_oc1ref OR tim1_oc2ref

54.3.16

MSv62330V1

Combined 3-phase PWM mode
Combined 3-phase PWM mode allows one to three center-aligned PWM signals to be
generated with a single programmable signal ANDed in the middle of the pulses. The
tim_oc5ref signal is used to define the resulting combined signal. The 3-bits GC5C[3:1] in
the TIMx_CCR5 allow selection on which reference signal the tim_oc5ref is combined. The
resulting signals, tim_ocxrefc, are made of an AND logical combination of two reference
PWMs:
•

If GC5C1 is set, tim_oc1refc is controlled by TIMx_CCR1 and TIMx_CCR5.

•

If GC5C2 is set, tim_oc2refc is controlled by TIMx_CCR2 and TIMx_CCR5.

•

If GC5C3 is set, tim_oc3refc is controlled by TIMx_CCR3 and TIMx_CCR5.

Combined 3-phase PWM mode can be selected independently on channels 1 to 3 by setting
at least one of the 3-bits GC5C[3:1].

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 551. 3-phase combined PWM signals with multiple trigger pulses per period
ARR
CCR5
CCR6
CCR1
CCR4
CCR2
CCR3
Counter
tim_oc5ref
tim_oc1refc

GC5C[3:0]

tim_oc2refc
tim_oc3refc
Preload 100
Active

xxx
001

xxx
100

tim_oc4ref
tim_oc6ref
tim_trgo2
MSv62331V1

The tim_trgo2 waveform shows how the ADC can be synchronized on given 3-phase PWM
signals. Refer to Section 54.3.31: ADC triggers for more details.

54.3.17

Complementary outputs and dead-time insertion
The advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8) can output two complementary signals and
manage the switching-off and the switching-on instants of the outputs.
This time is generally known as dead-time and it has to be adjusted depending on the
devices that are connected to the outputs and their characteristics (such as intrinsic delays
of level-shifters, or delays due to power switches).
The polarity of the outputs (main output tim_ocx or complementary tim_ocxn) can be
selected independently for each output. This is done by writing to the CCxP and CCxNP bits
in the TIMx_CCER register.
The complementary signals tim_ocx and tim_ocxn are activated by a combination of several
control bits: the CCxE and CCxNE bits in the TIMx_CCER register and the MOE, OISx,
OISxN, OSSI, and OSSR bits in the TIMx_BDTR and TIMx_CR2 registers. Refer to
Table 554: Output control bits for complementary tim_ocx and tim_ocxn channels with break
feature for more details. In particular, the dead-time is activated when switching to the idle
state (MOE falling down to 0).
Dead-time insertion is enabled by setting both CCxE and CCxNE bits, and the MOE bit if the
break circuit is present. There is one 10-bit dead-time generator for each channel. From a

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

reference waveform tim_ocxref, it generates two outputs tim_ocx and tim_ocxn. If tim_ocx
and tim_ocxn are active high:
•

The tim_ocx output signal is the same as the reference signal except for the rising
edge, which is delayed relative to the reference rising edge.

•

The tim_ocxn output signal is the opposite of the reference signal except for the rising
edge, which is delayed relative to the reference falling edge.

If the delay is greater than the width of the active output (tim_ocx or tim_ocxn) then the
corresponding pulse is not generated.
The following figures show the relationships between the output signals of the dead-time
generator and the reference signal tim_ocxref considering CCxP = 0, CCxNP = 0, MOE = 1,
CCxE = 1 and CCxNE = 1 in these examples.
Figure 552. Complementary output with symmetrical dead-time insertion
tim_ocxref

tim_ocx
delay
tim_ocxn
delay
MSv62332V1

The DTAE bit in the TIMx_DTR2 is used to differentiate the deadtime values for rising and
falling edges of the reference signal, as shown on Figure 553.
In asymmetrical mode (DTAE = 1), the rising edge-referred deadtime is defined by the
DTG[7:0] bitfield in the TIMx_BDTR register, while the falling edge-referred is defined by the
DTGF[7:0] bitfield in the TIMx_DTR2 register. The DTAE bit must be written before enabling
the counter and must not be modified while CEN = 1.
It is possible to have the deadtime value updated on-the-fly during pwm operation, using a
preload mechanism. The deadtime bitfield DTG[7:0] and DTGF[7:0] are preloaded when the
DTPE bit is set, in the TIMX_DTR2 register. The preload value is loaded in the active
register on the next update event.
Note:

<!-- pagebreak -->

If the DTPE bit is enabled while the counter is enabled, any new value written since last
update is discarded and previous value is used.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 553. Asymmetrical deadtime
tim_ocxref

Symmetrical deadtime
(DTAE = 0)

tim_ocx

tim_ocxn
DTG[7:0]

DTG[7:0]

tim_ocxref

Asymmetrical deadtime
(DTAE = 1)

tim_ocx

tim_ocxn
DTGF[7:0]

DTG[7:0]
MSv62333V1

Figure 554. Dead-time waveforms with delay greater than the negative pulse
tim_ocxref

tim_ocx
delay
tim_ocxn
MSv62334V1

Figure 555. Dead-time waveforms with delay greater than the positive pulse
tim_ocxref

tim_ocx
tim_ocxn
delay
MSv62335V1

The dead-time delay is the same for each of the channels and is programmable with the
DTG bits in the TIMx_BDTR register. Refer to Section 54.6.20: TIMx break and dead-time
register (TIMx_BDTR)(x = 1, 8) for delay calculation.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Redirecting tim_ocxref to tim_ocx or tim_ocxn
In output mode (forced, output compare or PWM), tim_ocxref can be redirected to the
tim_ocx output or to tim_ocxn output by configuring the CCxE and CCxNE bits in the
TIMx_CCER register.
This is used to send a specific waveform (such as PWM or static active level) on one output
while the complementary remains at its inactive level. Other alternative possibilities are to
have both outputs at inactive level or both outputs active and complementary with deadtime.
Note:

When only tim_ocxn is enabled (CCxE = 0, CCxNE = 1), it is not complemented and
becomes active as soon as tim_ocxref is high. For example, if CCxNP = 0 then tim_ocxn =
tim_ocxref. On the other hand, when both tim_ocx and tim_ocxn are enabled
(CCxE = CCxNE = 1) tim_ocx becomes active when tim_ocxref is high whereas tim_ocxn is
complemented and becomes active when tim_ocxref is low.

54.3.18

Using the break function
The purpose of the break function is to protect power switches driven by PWM signals
generated with the timers. The two break inputs are usually connected to fault outputs of
power stages and 3-phase inverters. When activated, the break circuitry shuts down the
PWM outputs and forces them to a predefined safe state. A number of internal MCU events
can also be selected to trigger an output shut-down.
The break features two channels. A break channel which gathers both system-level fault
(clock failure, ECC/parity errors,...) and application fault (from input pins and built-in
comparator), and can force the outputs to a predefined level (either active or inactive) after a
deadtime duration. A break2 channel which only includes application faults and is able to
force the outputs to an inactive state.
The output enable signal and output levels during break are depending on several control
bits:
•

The MOE bit in TIMx_BDTR register is used to enable/disable the outputs by software
and is reset in case of break or break2 event.

•

The OSSI bit in the TIMx_BDTR register defines whether the timer controls the output
in inactive state or releases the control to the GPIO controller (typically to have it in HiZ mode)

•

The OISx and OISxN bits in the TIMx_CR2 register which are setting the output shutdown level, either active or inactive. The tim_ocx and tim_ocxn outputs cannot be set
both to active level at a given time, whatever the OISx and OISxN values. Refer to
Table 554: Output control bits for complementary tim_ocx and tim_ocxn channels with
break feature for more details.

When exiting from reset, the break circuit is disabled and the MOE bit is low. The break
functions can be enabled by setting the BKE and BK2E bits in the TIMx_BDTR register. The
break input polarities can be selected by configuring the BKP and BK2P bits in the same
register. BKEx and BKPx can be modified at the same time. When the BKEx and BKPx bits
are written, a delay of one APB clock cycle is applied before the writing is effective.
Consequently, it is necessary to wait one APB clock period to correctly read back the bit
after the write operation.
Because MOE falling edge can be asynchronous, a resynchronization circuit has been
inserted between the actual signal (acting on the outputs) and the synchronous control bit
(accessed in the TIMx_BDTR register). It results in some delays between the asynchronous

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
and the synchronous signals. In particular, if MOE is set to 1 whereas it was low, a delay
must be inserted (dummy instruction) before reading it correctly. This is because the write
acts on the asynchronous signal whereas the read reflects the synchronous signal.
The sources for break (tim_brk) channel are:
•

External sources connected to one of the TIMx_BKIN pin (as per selection done in the
GPIO alternate function selection registers), with polarity selection and optional digital
filtering

•

Internal sources:
–

coming from a tim_brk_cmpx input (refer to Section 54.3.2: TIM1/TIM8 pins and
internal signals for product specific implementation)

–

coming from a system break request (refer to Section 54.3.2: TIM1/TIM8 pins and
internal signals for product specific implementation)

The sources for break2 (tim_brk2) are:
•

External sources connected to one of the TIMx_BKIN2 pin (as per selection done in the
GPIO alternate function selection registers), with polarity selection and optional digital
filtering

•

Internal sources coming from a tim_brk2_cmpx input (refer to Section 54.3.2:
TIM1/TIM8 pins and internal signals for product specific implementation)

Break events can also be generated by software using BG and B2G bits in the TIMx_EGR
register.
All sources are ORed before entering the timer tim_brk or tim_brk2 inputs, as per
Figure 556 below.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 556. Break and Break2 circuitry overview
Enable
tim_sys_brk0
Enable
tim_sys_brk1
tim_sys_brk

Enable

SBIF flag

tim_sys_brk2
Enable
tim_sys_brk3
Enable
tim_sys_brkx
CSS

BKINP
TIMx_BKIN
from AF
controller

Software break
requests: BG

BKINE

BKCMP1P..BKCMP4P

BKCMP1E
...
BKCMP4E

BIF flag

4

4

4

4

BKE
BKF[3:0]

tim_brk_cmp[4:1]

tim_brk

BKP

Filter
BKCMP5E..BKCMP8E

Application break requests

tim_brk_cmp[8:5]

BK2INP
TIMx_BKIN2
from AF
controller

BK2INE

BK2CMP1P..BK2CMP4P

Software break
requests: B2G

BK2CMP1E
...
BK2CMP4E

B2IF flag
BK2E

4

4

BK2F[3:0]

tim_brk2_cmp[4:1]

BK2P

tim_brk2

Filter
4

BK2CMP5E..BK2CMP8E

tim_brk2_cmp[8:5]

4
Application break requests
MSv62336V2

Note:

An asynchronous (clockless) operation is only guaranteed when the programmable filter is
disabled. If it is enabled, a fail safe clock mode (for example by using the internal PLL and/or
the CSS) must be used to guarantee that break events are handled.
When one of the breaks occurs (selected level on one of the break inputs):

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

The MOE bit is cleared asynchronously, putting the outputs in inactive state, idle state,
or even releasing the control to the GPIO controller (selected by the OSSI bit). This
feature is enabled even if the MCU oscillator is off.

•

Each output channel is driven with the level programmed in the OISx bit in the
TIMx_CR2 register as soon as MOE = 0. If OSSI = 0, the timer releases the output
control (taken over by the GPIO controller), otherwise the enable output remains high.

•

When complementary outputs are used:
–

The outputs are first put in inactive state (depending on the polarity). This is done
asynchronously so that it works even if no clock is provided to the timer.

–

If the timer clock is still present, then the dead-time generator is reactivated in
order to drive the outputs with the level programmed in the OISx and OISxN bits
after a dead-time. Even in this case, tim_ocx and tim_ocxn cannot be driven to

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
their active level together. Note that because of the resynchronization on MOE,
the dead-time duration is slightly longer than usual (around 2 tim_ker_ck clock
cycles).
–

Note:

If OSSI = 0, the timer releases the output control (taken over by the GPIO
controller which forces a Hi-Z state), otherwise the enable outputs remain or
become high as soon as one of the CCxE or CCxNE bits is high.

•

The break status flag (SBIF, BIF, and B2IF bits in the TIMx_SR register) is set. An
interrupt is generated if the BIE bit in the TIMx_DIER register is set. A DMA request
can be sent if the BDE bit in the TIMx_DIER register is set.

•

If the AOE bit in the TIMx_BDTR register is set, the MOE bit is automatically set again
at the next update event (UEV). As an example, this can be used to perform a
regulation. Otherwise, MOE remains low until the application sets it to 1 again. In this
case, it can be used for security and the break input can be connected to an alarm from
power drivers, thermal sensors, or any security components.

If the MOE is reset by the CPU while the AOE bit is set, the outputs are in idle state and
forced to inactive level or Hi-Z depending on OSSI value. If both the MOE and AOE bits are
reset by the CPU, the outputs are in disabled state and driven with the level programmed in
the OISx bit in the TIMx_CR2 register.
The break inputs are active on level. Thus, the MOE cannot be set while the break input is
active (neither automatically nor by software). In the meantime, the status flag BIF and B2IF
cannot be cleared.
In addition to the break input and the output management, a write protection has been
implemented inside the break circuit to safeguard the application. It is used to freeze the
configuration of several parameters (dead-time duration, tim_ocx/tim_ocxn polarities and
state when disabled, OCxM configurations, break enable, and polarity). The application can
choose from three levels of protection selected by the LOCK bits in the TIMx_BDTR
register. Refer to Section 54.6.20. The LOCK bits can be written only once after an MCU
reset.
Figure 557 shows an example of behavior of the outputs in response to a break.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 557. Various output behavior in response to a break event on tim_brk (OSSI = 1)
BREAK (MOE

)

tim_ocxref

tim_ocx
(tim_ocxn not implemented, CCxP=0, OISx=1)

tim_ocx
(tim_ocxn not implemented, CCxP=0, OISx=0)

tim_ocx
(tim_ocxn not implemented, CCxP=1, OISx=1)

tim_ocx
(tim_ocxn not implemented, CCxP=1, OISx=0)

tim_ocx
delay
delay
tim_ocxn
(CCxE=1, CCxP=0, OISx=0, CCxNE=1, CCxNP=0, OISxN=1)

delay

tim_ocx
delay
delay
tim_ocxn
(CCxE=1, CCxP=0, OISx=1, CCxNE=1, CCxNP=1, OISxN=1)

delay

tim_ocx
tim_ocxn
(CCxE=1, CCxP=0, OISx=0, CCxNE=0, CCxNP=0, OISxN=1)

delay

tim_ocx
tim_ocxn
(CCxE=1, CCxP=0, OISx=1, CCxNE=0, CCxNP=0, OISxN=0)

delay

tim_ocx
tim_ocxn
(CCxE=1, CCxP=0, CCxNE=0, CCxNP=0, OISx=OISxN=0 or OISx=OISxN=1)
MSv62337V1

The two break inputs have different behaviors on timer outputs:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

The tim_brk input can either disable (inactive state) or force the PWM outputs to a
predefined safe state.

•

tim_brk2 can only disable (inactive state) the PWM outputs.

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
The tim_brk has a higher priority than tim_brk2 input, as described in Table 547.

Note:

tim_brk2 must only be used with OSSR = OSSI = 1.
Table 547. Behavior of timer outputs versus tim_brk/tim_brk2 inputs
Typical use case
tim_brk2

Timer outputs
state

Active

Inactive

tim_brk

tim_ocxn output
(low side switches)

tim_ocx output
(high side switches)

X

– Inactive then
forced output
state (after a
deadtime)
– Outputs disabled
if OSSI = 0
(control taken
over by GPIO
logic)

ON after deadtime
insertion

OFF

Active

Inactive

OFF

OFF

Figure 558 gives an example of tim_ocx and tim_ocxn output behavior in case of active
signals on tim_brk and tim_brk2 inputs. In this case, both outputs have active high polarities
(CCxP = CCxNP = 0 in TIMx_CCER register).
Figure 558. PWM output state following tim_brk and tim_brk2 assertion (OSSI = 1)
tim_brk2

tim_brk
tim_ocx
Deadtime

Deadtime

tim_ocxn

I/O state

Active

Inactive

RM0456 Rev 6

Idle

MSv62338V1

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 559. PWM output state following tim_brk assertion (OSSI = 0)
tim_brk

I/O state defined by the GPIO controller (HI-Z)

tim_ocx
Deadtime

I/O state defined by the GPIO controller (HI-Z)

tim_ocxn

I/O state

54.3.19

Active

Inactive

Disabled

MSv62339V1

Bidirectional break inputs
The TIM1/TIM8 feature bidirectional break I/Os, as represented on Figure 560.
This provides support for:
•

A board-level global break signal available for signaling faults to external MCUs or gate
drivers, with a unique pin being both an input and an output status pin.

•

Internal break sources and multiple external open drain sources ORed together to
trigger a unique break event, when multiple internal and external break sources must
be merged.

The tim_brk and tim_brk2 inputs are configured in bidirectional mode using the BKBID and
BK2BID bits in the TIMxBDTR register. The BKBID programming bits can be locked in readonly mode using the LOCK bits in the TIMxBDTR register (in LOCK level 1 or above).
The bidirectional mode is available for both the tim_brk and tim_brk2 inputs, and require the
I/O to be configured in open-drain mode with active low polarity (using BKINP, BKP, BK2INP
and BK2P bits). Any break request coming either from system (for example CSS), from onchip peripherals, or from break inputs forces a low level on the break input to signal the fault
event. The bidirectional mode is inhibited if the polarity bits are not correctly set (active high
polarity), for safety purposes.
The break software events (BG and B2G) also cause the break I/O to be forced to 0 to
indicate to the external components that the timer is entered in break state. However, this is
valid only if the break is enabled (BKE or B2KE = 1). When a software break event is
generated with BKE or B2KE = 0), the outputs are put in safe state and the break flag is set,
but there is no effect on the TIMx_BKIN and TIMx_BKIN2 I/Os.
A safe disarming mechanism prevents the system to be definitively locked-up (a low level on
the break input triggers a break which enforces a low level on the same input).
When the BKDSRM (BK2DSRM) bit is set to 1, this releases the break output to clear a fault
signal and to give the possibility to re-arm the system.
At no point the break protection circuitry can be disabled:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

The break input path is always active: a break event is active even if the BKDSRM
(BK2DSRM) bit is set and the open drain control is released. This prevents the PWM
output to be restarted as long as the break condition is present.

•

The BKDSRM (BK2DSRM) bit cannot disarm the break protection as long as the
outputs are enabled (MOE bit is set) (see Table 548).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Table 548. Break protection disarming conditions
BKBID

BKDSRM

(BK2BID)

(BK2DSRM)

0

0

X

Armed

0

1

0

Armed

0

1

1

Disarmed

1

X

X

Armed

MOE

Break protection state

Arming and rearming break circuitry
The break circuitry (in input or bidirectional mode) is armed by default (peripheral reset
configuration).
The following procedure must be followed to re-arm the protection after a break (break2)
event:
•

The BKDSRM (BK2DSRM) bit must be set to release the output control.

•

The software must wait until the system break condition disappears (if any) and clear
the SBIF status flag (or clear it systematically before rearming).

•

The software must poll the BKDSRM (BK2DSRM) bit until it is cleared by hardware
(when the application break condition disappears).

From this point, the break circuitry is armed and active, and the MOE bit can be set to reenable the PWM outputs.
Figure 560. Output redirection (tim_brk2 request not represented)
tim_sys_brk

SBIF flag
Software break
requests: BG

BKE

Other break inputs
tim_brk_cmp[8:1]
AF input
(active low)

AF
controller

Bidirectional
Break I/O
TIM_BKIN

BKF[3:0]

BKP

Filter

BKIN inputs from
AF controller

BIF flag
BRK
request
tim_brk

Application break requests

AF output
(open drain)

Vss

Bidirectional
mode control logic

System break request
tim_brk request

MOE

BKBID

BKBDSRM

MSv62340V2

54.3.20

Clearing the tim_ocxref signal on an external event
The tim_ocxref signal of a given channel can be cleared when a high level is applied on the
tim_ocref_clr_int input (OCxCE enable bit in the corresponding TIMx_CCMRx register set to
1). tim_ocxref remains low until the next transition to the active state, on the following PWM

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

cycle. This function can only be used in Output compare and PWM modes. It does not work
in Forced mode. tim_ocref_clr_int input can be selected between the tim_ocref_clr input and
tim_etrf (tim_etr_in after the filter) by configuring the OCCS bit in the TIMx_SMCR register.
The tim_ocref_clr input can be selected among several inputs, using the
OCRSEL[2:0] bitfield in the TIMx_AF2 register, as shown on the Figure 561 below. Refer to
Section 54.3.2: TIM1/TIM8 pins and internal signals for a list of sources available in the
product.
Figure 561. tim_ocref_clr input selection multiplexer
TIMx_SMCR
OCCS

TIMx_AF2
OCRSEL[2:0]
tim_ocref_clr0
tim_ocref_clr1
tim_ocref_clr2
tim_ocref_clr3
tim_ocref_clr4
tim_ocref_clr5
tim_ocref_clr6
tim_ocref_clr7

tim_ocref_clr
tim_ocref_clr_int
tim_etrf

MSv62341V2

When tim_etrf is chosen, tim_etr_in must be configured as follows:
1.

The external trigger prescaler must be kept off: bits ETPS[1:0] of the TIMx_SMCR
register set to 00.

2.

The external clock mode 2 must be disabled: bit ECE of the TIMx_SMCR register set to
0.

3.

The external trigger polarity (ETP) and the external trigger filter (ETF) can be
configured according to application needs (as per polarity of the source connected to
the trigger and eventual need to remove noise using the filter).

Figure 562 shows the behavior of the tim_ocxref signal when the tim_etrf input becomes
high, for both values of the enable bit OCxCE. In this example, the timer TIMx is
programmed in PWM mode.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 562. Clearing TIMx tim_ocxref

(CCRx)
Counter (CNT)

tim_etrf

tim_ocxref
(OCxCE = ‘0’)
tim_ocxref
(OCxCE = ‘1’)

tim_ocref_clr_int
becomes high

tim_ocref_clr_int
still high
MSv62342V1

Note:

In case of a PWM with a 100% duty cycle (if CCRx>ARR), then tim_ocxref is enabled again
at the next counter overflow.

54.3.21

6-step PWM generation
When complementary outputs are used on a channel, preload bits are available on the
OCxM, CCxE, and CCxNE bits. The preload bits are transferred to the shadow bits at the
COM commutation event. Thus one can program in advance the configuration for the next
step and change the configuration of all the channels at the same time. COM can be
generated by software by setting the COM bit in the TIMx_EGR register or by hardware (on
tim_trgi rising edge).
A flag is set when the COM event occurs (COMIF bit in the TIMx_SR register), which can
generate an interrupt (if the COMIE bit is set in the TIMx_DIER register) or a DMA request
(if the COMDE bit is set in the TIMx_DIER register).
Figure 563 describes the behavior of the tim_ocx and tim_ocxn outputs when a COM event
occurs, in three different examples of programmed configurations.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 563. 6-step generation, COM example (OSSR = 1)
Counter (CNT)

tim_ocxref
Write COM to 1

COM event
CCxE = 1
Write OCxM to 0100
CCxNE = 0
OCxM = 0010 (forced inactive)

CCxE = 1
CCxNE = 0
OCxM = 0100

Write CCxNE to 1
and OCxM to 0101
CCxE = 1
CCxNE = 0
OCxM = 0100 (forced inactive)

CCxE = 0
CCxNE = 1
OCxM = 0101

tim_ocx

Example 1

tim_ocxn

tim_ocx
Example 2
tim_ocxn
Write CCxNE to 0
CCxE = 1
and OCxM to 0100
CCxNE = 0
OCxM = 0010 (forced inactive)

CCxE = 1
CCxNE = 1
OCxM = 0100

tim_ocx

Example 3

tim_ocxn
MSv62343V1

54.3.22

One-pulse mode
One-pulse mode (OPM) is a particular case of the previous modes. It allows the counter to
be started in response to a stimulus and to generate a pulse with a programmable length
after a programmable delay.
Starting the counter can be controlled through the slave mode controller. Generating the
waveform can be done in output compare mode or PWM mode. One-pulse mode is selected
by setting the OPM bit in the TIMx_CR1 register. This makes the counter stop automatically
at the next update event UEV.
A pulse can be correctly generated only if the compare value is different from the counter
initial value. Before starting (when the timer is waiting for the trigger), the configuration must
be:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

In upcounting: CNT < CCRx ≤ ARR (in particular, 0 < CCRx)

•

In downcounting: CNT > CCRx

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 564. Example of one pulse mode.
tim_ti2
tim_oc1ref
tim_oc1

Counter

TIMx_ARR
TIMx_CCR1

0
t

DELAY

t

PULSE

t
MSv62344V1

In the following example, the user wants to generate a positive pulse on tim_oc1 with a
length of tPULSE and after a delay of tDELAY as soon as a positive edge is detected on the
tim_ti2 input pin.
Use tim_ti2fp2 as trigger 1:
•

Map tim_ti2fp2 to tim_ti2 by writing CC2S = 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register.

•

tim_ti2fp2 must detect a rising edge, write CC2P = 0 and CC2NP = 0 in the
TIMx_CCER register.

•

Configure tim_ti2fp2 as trigger for the slave mode controller (tim_trgi) by writing
TS = 00110 in the TIMx_SMCR register.

•

tim_ti2fp2 is used to start the counter by writing SMS to 110 in the TIMx_SMCR register
(trigger mode).

The OPM waveform is defined by writing the compare registers (taking into account the
clock frequency and the counter prescaler).
•

The tDELAY is defined by the value written in the TIMx_CCR1 register.

•

The tPULSE is defined by the difference between the autoreload value and the compare
value (TIMx_ARR - TIMx_CCR1).

•

Suppose the user wants to build a waveform with a transition from 0 to 1 when a
compare match occurs and a transition from 1 to 0 when the counter reaches the
auto-reload value. This is achieved by enabling PWM mode 2 (OC1M = 111 in
TIMx_CCMR1). Optionally the preload registers can be enabled by writing OC1PE = 1
in the TIMx_CCMR1 register and ARPE in the TIMx_CR1 register. In this case one has
to write the compare value in the TIMx_CCR1 register, the autoreload value in the
TIMx_ARR register, generate an update by setting the UG bit and wait for external
trigger event on tim_ti2. CC1P is written to 0 in this example.

In this example, the DIR and CMS bits in the TIMx_CR1 register must be low.
Since only one pulse (Single mode) is needed, a 1 must be written in the OPM bit in the
TIMx_CR1 register to stop the counter at the next update event (when the counter rolls over

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

from the autoreload value back to 0). When OPM bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is set to 0, so
the Repetitive mode is selected.
Particular case: tim_ocx fast enable:
In One-pulse mode, the edge detection on tim_tix input set the CEN bit which enables the
counter. Then the comparison between the counter and the compare value makes the
output toggle. But several clock cycles are needed for these operations and it limits the
minimum delay tDELAY min that can be achieved.
To output a waveform with the minimum delay, the OCxFE bit can be set in the
TIMx_CCMRx register. Then tim_ocxref (and tim_ocx) are forced in response to the
stimulus, without taking in account the comparison. Its new level is the same as if a compare
match had occurred. OCxFE acts only if the channel is configured in PWM1 or PWM2
mode.

54.3.23

Retriggerable One-pulse mode
This mode allows the counter to be started in response to a stimulus and to generate a
pulse with a programmable length, but with the following differences with nonretriggerable
one-pulse mode described in Section 54.3.22:
•

The pulse starts as soon as the trigger occurs (no programmable delay).

•

The pulse is extended if a new trigger occurs before the previous one is completed.

The timer must be in Slave mode, with the bits SMS[3:0] = 1000 (Combined Reset + trigger
mode) in the TIMx_SMCR register, and the OCxM[3:0] bits set to 1000 or 1001 for
retriggerable OPM mode 1 or 2.
If the timer is configured in Up-counting mode, the corresponding CCRx must be set to 0
(the ARR register sets the pulse length). If the timer is configured in Down-counting mode,
CCRx must be above or equal to ARR.
Note:

The OCxM[3:0] and SMS[3:0] bitfields are split into two parts for compatibility reasons, the
most significant bit are not contiguous with the three least significant ones.
This mode must not be used with center-aligned PWM modes. It is mandatory to have
CMS[1:0] = 00 in TIMx_CR1.
Figure 565. Retriggerable one-pulse mode

tim_trgi

Counter

tim_ocx
MSv62345V2

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

54.3.24

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

Pulse on compare mode
A pulse can be generated upon compare match event. A signal with a programmable
pulsewidth generated when the counter value equals a given compare value, for debugging
or synchronization purposes.
This mode is available for any slave mode selection, including encoder modes, in edge and
center aligned counting modes. It is solely available for channel 3 and channel 4. The pulse
generator is unique and is shared by the two channels, as shown on Figure 566.
Figure 566. Pulse generator circuitry
Set
Reset

R/S
tim_oc3

OC3M = 1010

CCR3 match

Enable

CCR4 match

Enable

Pulse generator

OC4M = 1010

tim_oc4
PWPRSC PW[7:0]
[2:0]
Reset
Set

R/S
MSv62346V1

Figure 567 shows how the pulse is generated for edge-aligned and encoder operating
modes.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 567. Pulse generation on compare event, for edge-aligned and encoder modes
Counter
CMP3

Triggers
tim_ocx
Extended pulsewidth
due to re-trigger

Counter
CMP3

Triggers
tim_ocx
MSv62347V1

This output compare mode is selected using the OC3M[3:0] and OC4M[3:0] bitfields in
TIMx_CCMR2 register.
The pulsewidth is programmed using the PW[7:0] bitfield in the register, using a specific
clock prescaled according to PWPRSC[2:0] bits, as follows:
tPW = PW[7:0] x tPWG
where tPWG = (2(PWPRSC[2:0])) x ttim_ker_ck
gives the resolution and maximum values depending on the prescaler value.
The pulse is retriggerable: a new trigger while the pulse is ongoing, causes the pulse to be
extended.
Note:

<!-- pagebreak -->

If the two channels are enabled simultaneously, the pulses are issued independently as long
as the trigger on one channel is not overlapping the pulse generated on the concurrent
output. On the opposite, if the two triggers are overlapping, the pulse width related to the
first arriving trigger is extended (because of the retrigger), while the pulse width of the last
arriving trigger is correct (as shown on Figure 568).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 568. Extended pulsewidth in case of concurrent triggers
Trigger CMP3

Trigger CMP4

tim_oc3
Extended pulsewidth
due to overlapping
CMP4 trigger

tim_oc4
MSv62348V1

54.3.25

Encoder interface mode
Quadrature encoder
To select Encoder Interface mode write SMS = 0001 in the TIMx_SMCR register if the
counter is counting on tim_ti1 edges only, SMS = 0010 if it is counting on tim_ti2 edges only
and SMS = 0011 if it is counting on both tim_ti1 and tim_ti2 edges.
Select the tim_ti1 and tim_ti2 polarity by programming the CC1P and CC2P bits in the
TIMx_CCER register. When needed, the input filter can be programmed as well. CC1NP
and CC2NP must be kept low.
The two inputs tim_ti1 and tim_ti2 are used to interface to an quadrature encoder. Refer to
Table 549. The counter is clocked by each valid transition on tim_ti1fp1 or tim_ti2fp2 (tim_ti1
and tim_ti2 after input filter and polarity selection, tim_ti1fp1 = tim_ti1 if not filtered and not
inverted, tim_ti2fp2 = tim_ti2 if not filtered and not inverted) assuming that it is enabled
(CEN bit in TIMx_CR1 register written to 1). The sequence of transitions of the two inputs is
evaluated and generates count pulses as well as the direction signal. Depending on the
sequence the counter counts up or down, the DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register is modified
by hardware accordingly. The DIR bit is calculated at each transition on any input (tim_ti1 or
tim_ti2), whatever the counter is counting on tim_ti1 only, tim_ti2 only or both tim_ti1 and
tim_ti2.
Encoder interface mode acts simply as an external clock with direction selection. This
means that the counter just counts continuously between 0 and the autoreload value in the
TIMx_ARR register (0 to ARR or ARR down to 0 depending on the direction). So the
TIMx_ARR must be configured before starting. In the same way, the capture, compare,
prescaler, repetition counter, trigger output features continue to work as normal. Encoder
mode and External clock mode 2 are not compatible and must not be selected together.
In this mode, the counter is modified automatically following the speed and the direction of
the quadrature encoder and its content, therefore, always represents the encoder’s position.
The count direction correspond to the rotation direction of the connected sensor. The table
summarizes the possible combinations, assuming tim_ti1 and tim_ti2 do not switch at the
same time.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Table 549. Counting direction versus encoder signals (CC1P = CC2P = 0)

Active edge

SMS[3:0]

Counting on
tim_ti1 only
x1 mode

1110

Counting on
tim_ti2 only
x1 mode

1111

Counting on
tim_ti1 only
x2 mode

0001

Counting on
tim_ti2 only
x2 mode

0010

Counting on
tim_ti1 and
tim_ti2
x4 mode

0011

Level on
opposite
signal
(tim_ti1fp1 for
tim_ti2,
tim_ti2fp2 for
tim_ti1)

tim_ti1fp1 signal

tim_ti2fp2 signal

Rising

Falling

Rising

Falling

High

Down

Up

No count

No count

Low

No count

No count

No count

No count

High

No count

No count

Up

Down

Low

No count

No count

No count

No count

High

Down

Up

No count

No count

Low

Up

Down

No count

No count

High

No count

No count

Up

Down

Low

No count

No count

Down

Up

High

Down

Up

Up

Down

Low

Up

Down

Down

Up

A quadrature encoder can be connected directly to the MCU without external interface logic.
However, comparators are normally be used to convert the encoder’s differential outputs to
digital signals. This greatly increases noise immunity. The third encoder output which
indicate the mechanical zero position, may be connected to the external trigger input and
trigger a counter reset.
Figure 569 gives an example of counter operation, showing count signal generation and
direction control. It also shows how input jitter is compensated where both edges are
selected. This might occur if the sensor is positioned near to one of the switching points. For
this example the configuration is the following:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

CC1S = 01 (TIMx_CCMR1 register, tim_ti1fp1 mapped on tim_ti1).

•

CC2S = 01 (TIMx_CCMR1 register, tim_ti2fp2 mapped on tim_ti2).

•

CC1P = 0 and CC1NP = 0 (TIMx_CCER register, tim_ti1fp1 noninverted, tim_ti1fp1 =
tim_ti1).

•

CC2P = 0 and CC2NP = 0 (TIMx_CCER register, tim_ti1fp2 noninverted, tim_ti1fp2=
tim_ti2).

•

SMS = 0011 (TIMx_SMCR register, both inputs are active on both rising and falling
edges).

•

CEN = 1 (TIMx_CR1 register, Counter enabled).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 569. Example of counter operation in encoder interface mode.
forward

jitter

backward

jitter

forward

tim_ti1
tim_ti2

Counter

up

down

up

MSv62349V1

Figure 570 gives an example of counter behavior when tim_ti1fp1 polarity is inverted (same
configuration as above except CC1P = 1).
Figure 570. Example of encoder interface mode with tim_ti1fp1 polarity inverted.
forward

jitter

backward

jitter

forward

tim_ti1
tim_ti2

Counter

down

up

down
MSv62350V1

Figure 571 shows the timer counter value during a speed reversal, for various counting
modes.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 571. Quadrature encoder counting modes
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

DIR bit

Counter x4

Counter x2

Counter x1

6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4

8

9

9

0

1

0

5

2

1

4 3 2 1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2

1

0

9

0

8

9

7

6

8
MSv62351V1

The timer, when configured in Encoder Interface mode provides information on the sensor’s
current position. Dynamic information can be obtained (speed, acceleration, deceleration)
by measuring the period between two encoder events using a second timer configured in
capture mode. The output of the encoder which indicates the mechanical zero can be used
for this purpose. Depending on the time between two events, the counter can also be read
at regular times. This can be done by latching the counter value into a third input capture
register if available (then the capture signal must be periodic and can be generated by
another timer). When available, it is also possible to read its value through a DMA request.
The IUFREMAP bit in the TIMx_CR1 register forces a continuous copy of the update
interrupt flag (UIF) into the timer counter register’s bit 31 (TIMxCNT[31]). This allows both
the counter value and a potential roll-over condition signaled by the UIFCPY flag to be read
in an atomic way. It eases the calculation of angular speed by avoiding race conditions
caused, for instance, by a processing shared between a background task (counter reading)
and an interrupt (update interrupt).
There is no latency between the UIF and UIFCPY flag assertions.
In 32-bit timer implementations, when the IUFREMAP bit is set, bit 31 of the counter is
overwritten by the UIFCPY flag upon read access (the counter’s most significant bit is only
accessible in write mode).

Clock plus direction encoder mode
In addition to the quadrature encoder mode, the timer offers support for other types of
encoders.
In the clock plus direction mode shown on Figure 572, the clock is provided on a single line,
on tim_ti2, while the direction is forced using the tim_ti1 input.
This mode is enabled with the SMS[3:0] bitfield in the TIMx_SMCR register, as following:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

1010: x2 mode, the counter is updated on both rising and falling edges of the clock

•

1011: x1 mode, the counter is updated on a single clock edge, as per CC2P bit value:
CC2P = 0 corresponds to rising edge sensitivity and CC2P = 1 corresponds to falling
edge sensitivity

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
The polarity of the direction signal on tim_ti1 is set with the CC1P bit: 0 corresponds to
positive polarity (up-counting when tim_ti1 is high and down-counting when tim_ti1 is low)
and CC1P = 1 corresponds to negative polarity (up-counting when tim_ti1 is low).
Figure 572. Direction plus clock encoder mode
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

Counter x2 mode

6

Counter x1 mode

6

7

8

9

7

10

11

8

10

9

9

8

7

8

6

7
MSv62352V1

Directional clock encoder mode
In the directional clock mode on Figure 573, the clocks are provided on two lines, with a
single one at once, depending on the direction, so as to have one up-counting clock line and
one down-counting clock line.
This mode is enabled with the SMS[3:0] bitfield in the TIMx_SMCR register, as following:
•

1100: x2 mode, the counter is updated on both rising and falling edges of any of the two
clock line. The CC1P and CC2P bits are coding for the clock idle state. CCxP = 0
corresponds to high-level idle state (refer to Figure 573) and CCxP = 1 corresponds to
low-level idle state (refer to Figure 574).

•

1101: x1 mode, the counter is updated on a single clock edge, as per CC1P and CC2P
bit value. CCxP = 0 corresponds to falling edge sensitivity and high-level idle state
(refer to Figure 573), CCxP = 1 corresponds to rising edge sensitivity and low-level idle
state (refer to Figure 574).
Figure 573. Directional clock encoder mode (CC1P = CC2P = 0)
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

DIR bit

Counter x2 mode

Counter x1 mode

6

7

6

8

9

10

7

11

8

10

9

7

8

7

6

6

5

5
MSv62353V1

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 574. Directional clock encoder mode (CC1P = CC2P = 1)
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

DIR bit

Counter x2 mode

6

7

7

Counter x1 mode

8

9

10

8

11

10

9

9

8

8

7

7

6

5

6
MSv62354V1

Table 550 here-below details how the directional clock mode operates, for any input
transition.
Table 550. Counting direction versus encoder signals and polarity settings

Directional
clock mode

SMS[3:0]

x2 mode
CCxP = 0

1100

x2 mode
CCxP = 1

1100

x1 mode
CCxP = 0

1101

x1 mode
CCxP = 1

1101

Level on
opposite
signal
(tim_ti1fp1 for
tim_ti2,
tim_ti2fp2 for
tim_ti1)

tim_ti1fp1 signal

tim_ti2fp2 signal

Rising

Falling

Rising

Falling

High

Down

Down

Up

Up

Low

No count

No count

No count

No count

High

No count

No count

No count

No count

Low

Down

Down

Up

Up

High

No count

Down

No count

Up

Low

No count

No count

No count

No count

High

No count

No count

No count

No count

Low

Down

No count

Up

No count

Index input
The counter can be reset by an index signal coming from the encoder, indicating an
absolute reference position. The index signal must be connected to the tim_etr_in input. It
can be filtered using the digital input filter.
The index functionality is enabled with the IE bit in the TIMX_ECR register. The IE bit must
be set only in encoder mode, when the SMS[3:0] bitfield has the following values: 0001,
0010, 011, 1010, 1011, 1100, 1101, 1110, 1111.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Available encoders are proposed with several options for index pulse conditioning, as per
Figure 575:
•

gated with A and B: the pulsewidth is 1/4 of one channel period, aligned with both A
and B edges

•

gated with A (or gated with B): the pulsewidth is 1/2 of one channel period, aligned with
the two edges on channel A (resp. channel B)

•

ungated: the pulsewidth is up to one channel period, without any alignment to the
edges
Figure 575. Index gating options
Channel A

Channel B

Gated A & B

Gated A

Ungated
MSv45765V1

The circuitry tolerates jitter on index signal, whatever the gating mode, as show on
Figure 576.
In ungated mode, the signal must be strictly below two encoder periods. If the pulsewidth is
greater or equal to two encoder period, the counter is reset multiple times.
Figure 576. Jittered Index signals
Channel A

Channel B

Gated A & B

Gated A

Ungated
Max pulsewidth ungated mode
MSv45766V1

The timer supports the three gating options identically, without any specific programming
needed. It is only necessary to define on which encoder state (for example channel A and

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

channel B state combination) the index must be synchronized, using the IPOS[1:0] bitfield
in the TIMx_ECR register.
The index detection event acts differently depending on counting direction to ensure
symmetrical operation during speed reversal:
•

The counter is reset during up-counting (DIR bit = 0).

•

The counter is set to TIMx_ARR when down counting.

This allows the index to be generated on the very same mechanical angular position
whatever the counting direction. Figure 577 shows at which position is the index generated,
for a simplistic example (an encoder providing four edges par mechanical rotation).
Figure 577. Index generation for IPOS[1:0] = 11
AB = 00
State 1

Rotor angle = 270°

AB = 10
State 4

Up-counting
Down-counting

AB = 11
State 3

Rotor angle = 180°

Rotor angle = 0°

AB = 01
State 2

Rotor angle = 90°

The index event is always generated here
MSv45767V1

Figure 578 presents waveforms and corresponding values for IPOS[1:0] = 11. It shows that
the instant at which the counter value is forced is automatically adjusted depending on the
counting direction:
•

Counter set to 0 when encoder state is 11 (ChA = 1, ChB = 1), when up-counting (DIR
bit = 0).

•

Counter set to TIMx_ARR when exiting the 11 state, when down-counting (DIR bit = 1).

An interrupt can be issued upon index detection event.
The arrows are indicating on which transition is the index event interrupt generated.
Figure 578. Counter reading with index gated on channel A (IPOS[1:0] = 11)
Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter

5 6 7 0 1 2 3 4 5

6

5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
MSv45768V1

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 579. presents waveforms and corresponding values for the ungated mode. The
arrows are indicating on which transition is the index event generated.
Figure 579. Counter reading with index ungated (IPOS[1:0] = 00)
Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter

3 4 5 6 7 0 1 2 3

4

3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 7
MSv45769V1

Figure 580. shows how the ‘gated on A & B’ mode is handled, for various pulse alignment
scenario. The arrows are indicating on which transition is the index event generated.
Figure 580. Counter reading with index gated on channel A and B
Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter

5 6 7 0 1 2 3 4 5

6

5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
MSv45770V1

Figure 581 and Figure 582 detail the case where the subsequent index pulse may be
narrower than one quarter of the encoder clock period.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 581. Encoder mode behavior in case of narrow index pulse (IPOS[1:0] = 11)
Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter

5 6 7 0 1 2 3 4 5

6

5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

Index leading state transition

Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter

5 6 7 0 1 2 3 4 5

6

5 4 3 2 1 0 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

Index delayed versus state transition

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

MSv45771V1

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 582. Counter reset Narrow index pulse (closer view, ARR = 0x07)
Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter

5

6

7

4

5

6

0

1

2

3

0

1

2

3

Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter

7

MSv45772V1

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 583 shows how the index is managed in x1 and x2 modes.
Figure 583. Index behavior in x1 and x2 mode (IPOS[1:0] = 01)
AB = IPOS[1:0] = 01

Channel A

Channel B

Index

DIR bit

Counter x2

Counter x1

10

11

0

5

1

6

2

7

1

0

11

0

10

1

9

8

3
MSv45773V1

Directional index sensitivity
The IDIR[1:0] bitfield in the TIMx_ECR register allows the index to be active only in a
selected counting direction.
Figure 584 shows the relationship between index and counter reset events, depending on
IDIR[1:0] value.
Figure 584. Directional index sensitivity
DIR bit

UP-counting

Down-counting

Counter

Index input

Counter reset

IDIR[1:0]=00

IDIR[1:0]=01

IDIR[1:0]=10
MSv45774V1

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

Special first index event management
The FIDX bit in the TIMx_ECR register allows the index to be taken only once, as shown on
Figure 585. Once the first index has arrived, any subsequent index is ignored. If needed, the
circuitry can be rearmed by writing the FIDX bit to 0 and setting it again to 1.
Figure 585. Counter reset as function of FIDX bit setting

Counter

Counter reset

Index input

FIDX = 0

FIDX = 1
MSv45775V1

Index blanking
The index event can be blanked using the tim_ti3 or tim_ti4 inputs. During the blanking
window, the index events are no longer resetting the counter, as shown on the Figure 586
below.
This mode is enabled using the IBLK[1:0] bitfield in the TIMx_ECR register, as following:
•

IBLK[1:0] = 00: Index signal always active

•

IBLK[1:0] = 01: Index signal blanking on tim_ti3 input

•

IBLK[1:0] = 10: Index signal blanking on tim_ti4 input
Figure 586. Index blanking

Counter

Index input

Counter reset

Blanking signal
TI3 (CC3P=0)

IBLK[1:0] = 00

IBLK[1:0] = 01
MSv45776V1

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Index management in nonquadrature mode
Figure 587 and Figure 588 detail how the index is managed in directional clock mode and
clock plus direction mode, when the SMS[3:0] bitfield is equal to 1010, 1011, 1100, 1101.
For both of these modes, the index sensitivity is set with the IPOS[0] bit as following:
•

IPOS[0] = 0: Index is detected on clock low level

•

IPOS[0] = 1: Index is detected on clock high level

The IPOS[1] bit is not-significant.
Figure 587. Index behavior in clock + direction mode, IPOS[0] = 1
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

Index

Counter x2 mode

7

Counter x1 mode

7

0

1

2

0

3

4

1

3

2

2

7

6

1

5

7
MSv62355V1

Figure 588. Index behavior in directional clock mode, IPOS[0] = 1
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

DIR bit

Counter x2 mode

9

Counter x1 mode

9

0

1

0

2

3

1

4

3

2

2

1

1

0

9

0

8

9
MSv62356V1

Encoder error management
For encoder configurations where two quadrature signals are available, it is possible to
detect transition errors. The reading on the two inputs corresponds to a 2-bit gray code
which can be represented as a state diagram, on Figure 589.. A single bit is expected to
change at once. An erroneous transition sets the TERRF interrupt flag in the TIMx_SR

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
status register. A transition error interrupt is generated if the TERRIE bit is set in the
TIMx_DIER register.
Figure 589. State diagram for quadrature encoded signals

00

01

10

11

Correct transitions
Erroneous transitions

MSv45779V1

For encoder having an index signal, it is possible to detect abnormal operation resulting in
an excess of pulses per revolution. An encoder with N pulses per revolution provides 4xN
counts per revolution. The index signal resets the counter every 4xN clock periods.
If the counter value is incremented from TIMx_ARR to 0 or decremented from 0 to TIMxARR
value without any index event, this is reported as an index position error.
The overflow threshold is programmed using the TIMx_ARR register. A 1000 lines encoder
results in a counter value being between 0 and 3999 (in 4x reading mode). The overflow
detection threshold must be programmed by setting TIMx_ARR = 3999 + 1 = 4000.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

The error assertion is delayed to the transition 0 to 1 when in up-counting. This is cope with
narrow index pulses in gated A and B mode, as shown on Figure 590.
Figure 590. Up-counting encoder error detection
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

Index

IERRF

Counter

5

6

7

0

1

Error detected

Abort (index detection)

6

0

2

3

2

3

tim_ti1

tim_ti2

Index

IERRF

Counter

5

7

Error detected

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

1

Error asserted

MSv62357V1

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
In down-counting mode, the detection is conditioned by a preliminary transition from 1 to 0.
This is to cope with narrow index pulses in gated A and B mode, as shown on Figure 591, to
avoid any false error detection in case the encoder dithers between TIMx_ARR and 0
immediately after the index detection.
Figure 591. Down-counting encode error detection
tim_ti1

tim_ti2

Index

IERRF

Counter

2

1

0

7

No error: transition from 0 to
TIMx_ARR following an index

0

7

6

5

No error: transition from 0 to
TIMx_ARR without index, but not
following a transition from 1 to 0

tim_ti1

tim_ti2

Index

IERRF

Counter

2

1

0

Error detected

7

6

Error asserted

5

4

MSv62358V1

An index error sets the IERRF interrupt flag in the TIMx_SR status register. An index error
interrupt is generated if the IERRIE bit is set in the TIMx_DIER register.

Functional encoder interrupts
The following interrupts are also available in encoder mode
•

Direction change: any change of the counting direction in encoder mode causes the
DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register to toggle. The direction change sets the DIRF
interrupt flag in the TIMx_SR status register. A direction change interrupt is generated if
the DIRIE bit is set in the TIMx_DIER register.

•

Index event: the index event sets the IDXF interrupt flag in the TIMx_SR status register.
An index interrupt is generated if the IDXIE bit is set in the TIMx_DIER register.
RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Slave mode selection preload for run-time encoder mode update
It may be necessary to switch from one encoder mode to another during run-time. This is
typically done at high-speed to decrease the update interrupt rate, by switching from x4 to
x2 to x1 mode, as shown on Figure 592.
For this purpose, the SMS[3:0] bit can be preloaded. This is enabled by setting the SMSPE
enable bit in the TIMx_SMCR register. The trigger for the transfer from SMS[3:0] preload to
active value can be selected with the SMSPS bit in the TIMx_SMCR register.
•

SMSPS = 0: the transfer is triggered by the update event (UEV) occurring when the
counter overflows when upcounting, and underflows when downcounting.

•

SMSPS = 1: the transfer is triggered by the index event.
Figure 592. Encoder mode change with preload transferred on update (SMSPS = 0)
x4 mode

x2 mode

x1 mode

Update event

Preload value

Active value

SMS = 0011

SMS = 0011

SMS = 0001

SMS = 0001

SMS = 1110

SMS = 1110
MSv45781V1

Encoder clock output
The encoder mode operating principle is not perfectly suited for high-resolution velocity
measurements, at low speed, as it requires a relatively long integration time to have a
sufficient number of clock edges and a precise measurement.
At low speed, a better solution is to do an edge-to-edge clock period measurement. This
can be achieved using a slave timer. The timer can output the encoder clock information on
the tim_trgo output. The slave timer can then perform a period measurement and provide
velocity information for each and every encoder clock edge.
This mode is enabled by setting the MMS[3:0] bitfield to 1000, in the TIMx_CR2 register.It is
valid for the following SMS[3:0] values: 0001, 0010, 0011, 1010, 1011, 1100, 1101, 1110,
1111. Any other SMS[3:0] code is not allowed and may lead to unexpected behavior.

54.3.26

Direction bit output
Its is possible to output a direction signal out of the timer, on the tim_oc3n and tim_oc4
output signals (copy of the DIR bit in the TIMx_CR1 register). This is achieved by setting the
OC3M[3:0] or the OC4M[3:0] bitfield to 1011 in the TIMx_CCMR2 register.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
This feature can be used for monitoring the counting direction (or rotation direction) in
encoder mode, or to have a signal indicating the up/down phases in center-aligned PWM
mode.

54.3.27

UIF bit remapping
The IUFREMAP bit in the TIMx_CR1 register forces a continuous copy of the update
interrupt flag UIF into the timer counter register’s bit 31 (TIMxCNT[31]). This allows both the
counter value and a potential roll-over condition signaled by the UIFCPY flag to be read in
an atomic way. In particular cases, it can ease the calculations by avoiding race conditions,
caused for instance by a processing shared between a background task (counter reading)
and an interrupt (update interrupt).
There is no latency between the UIF and UIFCPY flags assertion.

54.3.28

Timer input XOR function
The TI1S bit in the TIMx_CR2 register, allows the input filter of channel 1 to be connected to
the output of an XOR gate, combining the three input pins tim_ti1, tim_ti2 and tim_ti3.
The XOR output can be used with all the timer input functions such as trigger or input
capture. It is convenient to measure the interval between edges on two input signals, as per
Figure 593.
Figure 593. Measuring time interval between edges on three signals

tim_ti1
tim_ti2
tim_ti3

XOR

TIMx
Counter
MSv75854V1

54.3.29

Interfacing with Hall sensors
This is done using the advanced-control timers to generate PWM signals to drive the motor
and another timer TIMx referred to as “interfacing timer” in Figure 594. The “interfacing
timer” captures the three timer input pins (tim_ti1, tim_ti2 and tim_ti3) connected through a
XOR to the tim_ti1 input channel (selected by setting the TI1S bit in the TIMx_CR2 register).
The slave mode controller is configured in reset mode; the slave input is tim_ti1f_ed. Thus,
each time one of the three inputs toggles, the counter restarts counting from 0. This creates
a time base triggered by any change on the Hall inputs.
On the “interfacing timer”, capture/compare channel 1 is configured in capture mode,
capture signal is tim_trc (See Figure 536). The captured value, which corresponds to the
time elapsed between two changes on the inputs, gives information about motor speed.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

The “interfacing timer” can be used in output mode to generate a pulse which changes the
configuration of the channels of the advanced-control timer (by triggering a COM event).
The advanced-control timer is used to generate PWM signals to drive the motor. To do this,
the interfacing timer channel must be programmed so that a positive pulse is generated
after a programmed delay (in output compare or PWM mode). This pulse is sent to the
advanced-control timer through the tim_trgo output.
In this example the user wants to change the PWM configuration of the advanced-control
timer after a programmed delay each time a change occurs on the Hall inputs connected to
one of the TIMx timers.
•

Configure three timer inputs ORed to the tim_ti1 input channel by writing the TI1S bit in
the TIMx_CR2 register to 1.

•

Program the time base: write the TIMx_ARR to the max value (the counter must be
cleared by the tim_ti1 change. Set the prescaler to get a maximum counter period
longer than the time between two changes on the sensors.

•

Program the channel 1 in capture mode (tim_trc selected): write the CC1S bits in the
TIMx_CCMR1 register to 01. The digital filter can also be programmed if needed.

•

Program the channel 2 in PWM 2 mode with the desired delay: write the OC2M bits to
111 and the CC2S bits to 00 in the TIMx_CCMR1 register.

•

Select tim_oc2ref as trigger output on tim_trgo: write the MMS bits in the TIMx_CR2
register to 101.

In the advanced-control timer, the right tim_itrx input must be selected as trigger input, the
timer is programmed to generate PWM signals, the capture/compare control signals are
preloaded (CCPC = 1 in the TIMx_CR2 register) and the COM event is controlled by the
trigger input (CCUS = 1 in the TIMx_CR2 register). The PWM control bits (CCxE, OCxM)
are written after a COM event for the next step (this can be done in an interrupt subroutine
generated by the rising edge of tim_oc2ref).
Figure 594 describes this example.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
Figure 594. Example of Hall sensor interface
tim_ti1
tim_ti2

Interfacing timer

tim_ti3

Counter (CNT)
(CCR2)

CCR1)

C7A3

C7A8

C794

C7A5

C7AB

C796

tim_trgo = tim_oc2ref

COM

Advanced-control timers

tim_oc1
tim_oc1n

tim_oc2
tim_oc2n
tim_oc3
tim_oc3n

Write CCxE, CCxNE
and OCxM for next step

54.3.30

MSv62360V1

Timer synchronization
The TIMx timers are linked together internally for timer synchronization or chaining. Refer to
Section 55.4.23: Timer synchronization for details. They can be synchronized in several
modes: Reset mode, Gated mode, Trigger mode, Reset + trigger, and gated + reset modes.

Slave mode: Reset mode
The counter and its prescaler can be reinitialized in response to an event on a trigger input.
Moreover, if the URS bit from the TIMx_CR1 register is low, an update event UEV is
generated. Then all the preloaded registers (TIMx_ARR, TIMx_CCRx) are updated.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

In the following example, the upcounter is cleared in response to a rising edge on tim_ti1
input:
•

Configure the channel 1 to detect rising edges on tim_ti1. Configure the input filter
duration (in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC1F = 0000). The
capture prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The
CC1S bits select the input capture source only, CC1S = 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register. Write CC1P = 0 and CC1NP = 0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity
(and detect rising edges only).

•

Configure the timer in reset mode by writing SMS = 100 in TIMx_SMCR register. Select
tim_ti1 as the input source by writing TS = 00101 in TIMx_SMCR register.

•

Start the counter by writing CEN = 1 in the TIMx_CR1 register.

The counter starts counting on the internal clock, then behaves normally until tim_ti1 rising
edge. When tim_ti1 rises, the counter is cleared and restarts from 0. In the meantime, the
trigger flag is set (TIF bit in the TIMx_SR register) and an interrupt request, or a DMA
request can be sent if enabled (depending on the TIE and TDE bits in TIMx_DIER register).
The following figure shows this behavior when the autoreload register TIMx_ARR = 0x36.
The delay between the rising edge on tim_ti1 and the actual reset of the counter is due to
the resynchronization circuit on tim_ti1 input.
Figure 595. Control circuit in reset mode

tim_ti1

UG
tim_cnt_ck, tim_psc_ck
Counter register

30 31

32 33 34 35 36 00 01 02 03 00 01 02 03

TIF
MSv62361V1

Slave mode: Gated mode
The counter can be enabled depending on the level of a selected input.
In the following example, the upcounter counts only when tim_ti1 input is low:

<!-- pagebreak -->

•

Configure the channel 1 to detect low levels on tim_ti1. Configure the input filter
duration (in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC1F = 0000). The
capture prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The
CC1S bits select the input capture source only, CC1S = 01 in TIMx_CCMR1 register.
Write CC1P = 1 and CC1NP = 0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and
detect low level only).

•

Configure the timer in gated mode by writing SMS = 101 in TIMx_SMCR register.
Select tim_ti1 as the input source by writing TS = 00101 in TIMx_SMCR register.

•

Enable the counter by writing CEN = 1 in the TIMx_CR1 register (in gated mode, the
counter does not start if CEN = 0, whatever is the trigger input level).

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
The counter starts counting on the internal clock as long as tim_ti1 is low and stops as soon
as tim_ti1 becomes high. The TIF flag in the TIMx_SR register is set both when the counter
starts or stops.
The delay between the rising edge on tim_ti1 and the actual stop of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on tim_ti1 input.
Figure 596. Control circuit in Gated mode
tim_ti1
CEN
tim_cnt_ck, tim_psc_ck

Counter register

30 31 32 33

34

35

36

37 38

TIF

Write TIF = 0
MSv62362V1

Slave mode: Trigger mode
The counter can start in response to an event on a selected input.
In the following example, the upcounter starts in response to a rising edge on tim_ti2 input:
•

Configure the channel 2 to detect rising edges on tim_ti2. Configure the input filter
duration (in this example, we do not need any filter, so we keep IC2F = 0000). The
capture prescaler is not used for triggering, so it does not need to be configured. The
CC2S bits are configured to select the input capture source only, CC2S = 01 in
TIMx_CCMR1 register. Write CC2P = 1 and CC2NP = 0 in TIMx_CCER register to
validate the polarity (and detect low level only).

•

Configure the timer in trigger mode by writing SMS = 110 in TIMx_SMCR register.
Select tim_ti2 as the input source by writing TS = 00110 in TIMx_SMCR register.

When a rising edge occurs on tim_ti2, the counter starts counting on the internal clock and
the TIF flag is set.
The delay between the rising edge on tim_ti2 and the actual start of the counter is due to the
resynchronization circuit on tim_ti2 input.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Figure 597. Control circuit in trigger mode
tim_ti2
CEN
tim_cnt_ck, tim_psc_ck
Counter register

34

35

36 37 38

TIF
MSv62363V1

Slave mode: Combined reset + trigger mode
In this case, a rising edge of the selected trigger input (tim_trgi) reinitializes the counter,
generates an update of the registers, and starts the counter.
This mode is used for One-pulse mode.

Slave mode: Combined gated + reset mode
The counter clock is enabled when the trigger input (tim_trgi) is high. The counter stops and
is reset) as soon as the trigger becomes low. Both start and stop of the counter are
controlled.
This mode is used to detect out-of-range PWM signal (duty cycle exceeding a maximum
expected value).

Slave mode: external clock mode 2 + trigger mode
The external clock mode 2 can be used in addition to another slave mode (except external
clock mode 1 and encoder mode). In this case, the tim_etr_in signal is used as external
clock input, and another input can be selected as trigger input (in reset mode, gated mode
or trigger mode). It is recommended not to select tim_etr_in as tim_trgi through the TS bits
of TIMx_SMCR register.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
In the following example, the upcounter is incremented at each rising edge of the tim_etr_in
signal as soon as a rising edge of tim_ti1 occurs:
1.

2.

3.

Configure the external trigger input circuit by programming the TIMx_SMCR register as
follows:
–

ETF = 0000: no filter

–

ETPS = 00: prescaler disabled

–

ETP = 0: detection of rising edges on tim_etr_in and ECE = 1 to enable the
external clock mode 2.

Configure the channel 1 as follows, to detect rising edges on TI:
–

IC1F = 0000: no filter.

–

The capture prescaler is not used for triggering and does not need to be
configured.

–

CC1S = 01in TIMx_CCMR1 register to select only the input capture source

–

CC1P = 0 and CC1NP = 0 in TIMx_CCER register to validate the polarity (and
detect rising edge only).

Configure the timer in trigger mode by writing SMS = 110 in TIMx_SMCR register.
Select tim_ti1 as the input source by writing TS = 00101 in TIMx_SMCR register.

A rising edge on tim_ti1 enables the counter and sets the TIF flag. The counter then counts
on tim_etr_in rising edges.
The delay between the rising edge of the tim_etr_in signal and the actual reset of the
counter is due to the resynchronization circuit on tim_etrp input.
Figure 598. Control circuit in external clock mode 2 + trigger mode

tim_ti1

CEN

ETR

tim_cnt_ck, tim_psc_ck

Counter register

34

35

36

TIF
MSv62364V1

Note:

The clock of the slave peripherals (such as timer, ADC) receiving the tim_trgo or the
tim_trgo2 signals must be enabled prior to receive events from the master timer, and the
clock frequency (prescaler) must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from
the master timer.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

54.3.31

RM0456

ADC triggers
The timer can generate an ADC triggering event with various internal signals, such as reset,
enable or compare events. It is also possible to generate a pulse issued by internal edge
detectors, such as:
•

Rising and falling edges of OC4ref

•

Rising edge on OC5ref or falling edge on OC6ref

The triggers are issued on the tim_trgo2 internal line which is redirected to the ADC. There
is a total of 16 possible events, which can be selected using the MMS2[3:0] bits in the
TIMx_CR2 register.
An example of an application for 3-phase motor drives is given in Figure 551.
Note:

The clock of the slave peripherals (timer, ADC, ...) receiving the tim_trgo or the tim_trgo2
signals must be enabled prior to receive events from the master timer, and the clock
frequency (prescaler) must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the
master timer.
The clock of the ADC must be enabled prior to receive events from the master timer, and
must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the timer.

54.3.32

DMA burst mode
The TIMx timers have the capability to generate multiple DMA requests upon a single event.
The main purpose is to be able to reprogram part of the timer multiple times without
software overhead, but it can also be used to read several registers in a row, at regular
intervals.
The DMA controller destination is unique and must point to the virtual register TIMx_DMAR.
On a given timer event, the timer launches a sequence of DMA requests (burst). Each write
into the TIMx_DMAR register is actually redirected to one of the timer registers.
The DBL[4:0] bits in the TIMx_DCR register set the DMA burst length. The timer recognizes
a burst transfer when a read or a write access is done to the TIMx_DMAR address), i.e. the
number of transfers (either in half-words or in bytes).
The DBA[4:0] bits in the TIMx_DCR register define the DMA base address for DMA
transfers (when read/write access are done through the TIMx_DMAR address). DBA is
defined as an offset starting from the address of the TIMx_CR1 register:
Example:
00000: TIMx_CR1
00001: TIMx_CR2
00010: TIMx_SMCR
The DBSS[3:0] bits in the TIMx_DCR register defines the interrupt source that triggers the
DMA burst transfers (see Section 54.6.29: TIMx DMA control register (TIMx_DCR)(x = 1, 8)
for details).
As an example, the timer DMA burst feature is used to update the contents of the CCRx
registers (x = 2, 3, 4) upon an update event, with the DMA transferring half words into the
CCRx registers.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)
This is done in the following steps:
1.

Configure the corresponding DMA channel as follows:
–

DMA channel peripheral address is the DMAR register address.

–

DMA channel memory address is the address of the buffer in the RAM containing
the data to be transferred by DMA into CCRx registers.

–

Number of data to transfer = 3 (see note below).

–

Circular mode disabled.

2.

Configure the DCR register by configuring the DBA and DBL bitfields as follows:
DBL = 3 transfers, DBA = 0xE and DBSS = 1.

3.

Enable the TIMx update DMA request (set the UDE bit in the DIER register).

4.

Enable TIMx.

5.

Enable the DMA channel.

This example is for the case where every CCRx register to be updated once. If every CCRx
register is to be updated twice for example, the number of data to transfer must be 6. Let’s
take the example of a buffer in the RAM containing data1, data2, data3, data4, data5, and
data6. The data is transferred to the CCRx registers as follows: on the first update DMA
request, data1 is transferred to CCR2, data2 is transferred to CCR3, data3 is transferred to
CCR4 and on the second update DMA request, data4 is transferred to CCR2, data5 is
transferred to CCR3, and data6 is transferred to CCR4.
Note:

A null value can be written to the reserved registers.

54.3.33

TIM1/TIM8 DMA requests
The TIM1/TIM8 can generate a DMA request, as shown in the table below.
Table 551. DMA request
DMA request signal

54.3.34

DMA request

Enable control bit

tim_upd_dma

Update

UDE

tim_cc1_dma

Capture/compare 1

CC1DE

tim_cc2_dma

Capture/compare 2

CC2DE

tim_cc3_dma

Capture/compare 3

CC3DE

tim_cc4_dma

Capture/compare 4

CC4DE

tim_com_dma

Commutation (COM)

COMDE

tim_trgi_dma

Trigger

TDE

Debug mode
When the microcontroller enters debug mode (Cortex®-M33 core halted), the TIMx counter
can either continue to work normally or stop, depending on DBG_TIMx_STOP configuration
bit in DBG module.
The behavior in debug mode can be programmed with a dedicated configuration bit per
timer in the Debug support (DBG) module.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

