2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Bit 4 DIR: Direction
0: Counter used as upcounter
1: Counter used as downcounter
Note: This bit is read only when the timer is configured in Center-aligned mode or Encoder
mode.
Bit 3 OPM: One-pulse mode
0: Counter is not stopped at update event
1: Counter stops counting at the next update event (clearing the bit CEN)
Bit 2 URS: Update request source
This bit is set and cleared by software to select the UEV event sources.
0: Any of the following events generate an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.
These events can be:
–
Counter overflow/underflow
–
Setting the UG bit
–
Update generation through the slave mode controller
1: Only counter overflow/underflow generates an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.
Bit 1 UDIS: Update disable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable UEV event generation.
0: UEV enabled. The Update (UEV) event is generated by one of the following events:
–
Counter overflow/underflow
–
Setting the UG bit
–
Update generation through the slave mode controller
Buffered registers are then loaded with their preload values.
1: UEV disabled. The Update event is not generated, shadow registers keep their value
(ARR, PSC, CCRx). However the counter and the prescaler are reinitialized if the UG bit is
set or if a hardware reset is received from the slave mode controller.
Bit 0 CEN: Counter enable
0: Counter disabled
1: Counter enabled
Note: External clock, gated mode and encoder mode can work only if the CEN bit has been
previously set by software. However trigger mode can set the CEN bit automatically by
hardware.

54.6.2

TIMx control register 2 (TIMx_CR2)(x = 1, 8)
Address offset: 0x004
Reset value: 0x0000 0000

31

30

29

28

27

26

25

24

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

MMS[3]

Res.

rw

23

22

rw

rw

20

rw

rw

6

5

4

MMS2[3:0]

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

OIS4N

OIS4

OIS3N

OIS3

OIS2N

OIS2

OIS1N

OIS1

TI1S

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

<!-- pagebreak -->

21

RM0456 Rev 6

MMS[2:0]
rw

rw

rw

19

18

17

16

Res.

OIS6

Res.

OIS5

rw

rw

3

2

1

0

CCDS

CCUS

Res.

CCPC

rw

rw

rw

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

Bits 31:26 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 24 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 23:20 MMS2[3:0]: Master mode selection 2
These bits allow the information to be sent to ADC for synchronization (tim_trgo2) to be
selected. The combination is as follows:
0000: Reset - the UG bit from the TIMx_EGR register is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2). If
the reset is generated by the trigger input (slave mode controller configured in reset
mode), the signal on tim_trgo2 is delayed compared to the actual reset.
0001: Enable - the Counter Enable signal CNT_EN is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2). It
is useful to start several timers at the same time or to control a window in which a
slave timer is enabled. The Counter Enable signal is generated by a logic AND
between the CEN control bit and the trigger input when configured in Gated mode.
When the Counter Enable signal is controlled by the trigger input, there is a delay on
tim_trgo2, except if the Master/Slave mode is selected (see the MSM bit description in
TIMx_SMCR register).
0010: Update - the update event is selected as trigger output (tim_trgo2). For instance, a
master timer can then be used as a prescaler for a slave timer.
0011: Compare pulse - the trigger output sends a positive pulse when the CC1IF flag is to
be set (even if it was already high), as soon as a capture or compare match occurs
(tim_trgo2).
0100: Compare - tim_oc1refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2)
0101: Compare - tim_oc2refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2)
0110: Compare - tim_oc3refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2)
0111: Compare - tim_oc4refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2)
1000: Compare - tim_oc5refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2)
1001: Compare - tim_oc6refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo2)
1010: Compare Pulse - tim_oc4refc rising or falling edges generate pulses on tim_trgo2
1011: Compare pulse - tim_oc6refc rising or falling edges generate pulses on tim_trgo2
1100: Compare pulse - tim_oc4refc or tim_oc6refc rising edges generate pulses on
tim_trgo2
1101: Compare pulse - tim_oc4refc rising or tim_oc6refc falling edges generate pulses on
tim_trgo2
1110: Compare pulse - tim_oc5refc or tim_oc6refc rising edges generate pulses on
tim_trgo2
1111: Compare pulse - tim_oc5refc rising or tim_oc6refc falling edges generate pulses on
tim_trgo2
Note: The clock of the slave timer or ADC must be enabled prior to receive events from the
master timer, and must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the
master timer.
Bit 19 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 18 OIS6: Output idle state 6 (tim_oc6 output)
Refer to OIS1 bit
Bit 17 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 16 OIS5: Output idle state 5 (tim_oc5 output)
Refer to OIS1 bit
Bit 15 OIS4N: Output idle state 4 (tim_oc4n output)
Refer to OIS1N bit
Bit 14 OIS4: Output idle state 4 (tim_oc4 output)
Refer to OIS1 bit

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2236

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

RM0456

Bit 13 OIS3N: Output idle state 3 (tim_oc3n output)
Refer to OIS1N bit
Bit 12 OIS3: Output idle state 3 (tim_oc3n output)
Refer to OIS1 bit
Bit 11 OIS2N: Output idle state 2 (tim_oc2n output)
Refer to OIS1N bit
Bit 10 OIS2: Output idle state 2 (tim_oc2 output)
Refer to OIS1 bit
Bit 9 OIS1N: Output idle state 1 (tim_oc1n output)
0: tim_oc1n = 0 after a dead-time when MOE = 0
1: tim_oc1n = 1 after a dead-time when MOE = 0
Note: This bit can not be modified as long as LOCK level 1, 2 or 3 has been programmed
(LOCK bits in TIMx_BDTR register).
Bit 8 OIS1: Output idle state 1 (tim_oc1 output)
0: tim_oc1 = 0 (after a dead-time) when MOE = 0
1: tim_oc1 = 1 (after a dead-time) when MOE = 0
Note: This bit can not be modified as long as LOCK level 1, 2 or 3 has been programmed
(LOCK bits in TIMx_BDTR register).
Bit 7 TI1S: tim_ti1 selection
0: The tim_ti1_in[15:0] multiplexer output is connected to tim_ti1 input
1: tim_ti1_in[15:0], tim_ti2_in[15:0] and tim_ti3_in[15:0] multiplexers outputs are XORed and
connected to the tim_ti1 input

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Advanced-control timers (TIM1/TIM8)

Bits 25, 6:4 MMS[3:0]: Master mode selection
These bits select the information to be sent in master mode to slave timers for
synchronization (tim_trgo). The combination is as follows:
0000: Reset - the UG bit from the TIMx_EGR register is used as trigger output (tim_trgo). If
the reset is generated by the trigger input (slave mode controller configured in reset
mode) then the signal on tim_trgo is delayed compared to the actual reset.
0001: Enable - the Counter Enable signal CNT_EN is used as trigger output (tim_trgo). It is
useful to start several timers at the same time or to control a window in which a slave
timer is enable. The Counter Enable signal is generated by a logic AND between CEN
control bit and the trigger input when configured in gated mode. When the Counter
Enable signal is controlled by the trigger input, there is a delay on tim_trgo, except if
the master/slave mode is selected (see the MSM bit description in TIMx_SMCR
register).
0010: Update - The update event is selected as trigger output (tim_trgo). For instance a
master timer can then be used as a prescaler for a slave timer.
0011: Compare Pulse - The trigger output send a positive pulse when the CC1IF flag is to
be set (even if it was already high), as soon as a capture or a compare match
occurred. (tim_trgo).
0100: Compare - tim_oc1refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
0101: Compare - tim_oc2refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
0110: Compare - tim_oc3refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
0111: Compare - tim_oc4refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
1000: Encoder Clock output - The encoder clock signal is used as trigger output
(tim_trgo). This code is valid for the following SMS[3:0] values: 0001, 0010, 0011,
1010, 1011, 1100, 1101, 1110, 1111. Any other SMS[3:0] code is not allowed and may
lead to unexpected behavior.
Other codes reserved
Note: The clock of the slave timer or ADC must be enabled prior to receive events from the
master timer, and must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the
master timer.
Bit 3 CCDS: Capture/compare DMA selection
0: CCx DMA request sent when CCx event occurs
1: CCx DMA requests sent when update event occurs
Bit 2 CCUS: Capture/compare control update selection
0: When capture/compare control bits are preloaded (CCPC = 1), they are updated by
setting the COMG bit only
1: When capture/compare control bits are preloaded (CCPC = 1), they are updated by
setting the COMG bit or when an rising edge occurs on tim_trgi
Note: This bit acts only on channels that have a complementary output.
Bit 1 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 0 CCPC: Capture/compare preloaded control
0: CCxE, CCxNE and OCxM bits are not preloaded
1: CCxE, CCxNE and OCxM bits are preloaded, after having been written, they are updated
only when a commutation event (COM) occurs (COMG bit set or rising edge detected on
tim_trgi, depending on the CCUS bit).
Note: This bit acts only on channels that have a complementary output.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

