2350

General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3/TIM4/TIM5)

RM0456

Table 565. Interconnect to the tim_etr input multiplexer
for the STM32U59x/5Ax/5Fx/5Gx (continued)
Timer external
trigger input
signal

Timer external trigger signal assignment
TIM2

TIM3

TIM4

TIM5

tim_etr10

TIM5_ETR

DSI_TE

DSI_TE

DSI_TE

tim_etr11

LSE

adc1_awd1

adc2_awd1

tim_etr12

Reserved

adc1_awd2

adc2_awd2

tim_etr13

DSI_TE

adc1_awd3

adc2_awd3

tim_etr14

DCMI_HSYNC

DCMI_HSYNC

DCMI_HSYNC

DCMI_HSYNC

tim_etr15

LTDC_HSYNC

LTDC_HSYNC

LTDC_HSYNC

LTDC_HSYNC

Reserved

The table below lists the internal sources connected to the tim_ocref_clr input multiplexer.
Table 566. Interconnect to the tim_ocref_clr input multiplexer
Timer
tim_ocref_clr
signal

Timer tim_ocref_clr signals assignment
TIM2

TIM3

TIM4

TIM5

tim_ocref_clr0

comp1_out

comp1_out

comp1_out

comp1_out

tim_ocref_clr1

(1)

comp2_out(1)

comp2_out(1)

comp2_out(1)

comp2_out

tim_ocref_clr[7:2]

Reserved

1. This connection is not present in STM32U535/545 since COMP2 is not available.

55.4.3

Time-base unit
The main block of the programmable timer is a 16-bit/32-bit counter with its related
autoreload register. The counter can count up, down or both up and down. The counter
clock can be divided by a prescaler.
The counter, the autoreload register and the prescaler register can be written or read by
software. This is true even when the counter is running.
The time-base unit includes:
•

Counter register (TIMx_CNT)

•

Prescaler register (TIMx_PSC)

•

Autoreload register (TIMx_ARR).

The autoreload register is preloaded. Writing to or reading from the autoreload register
accesses the preload register. The content of the preload register is transferred into the
shadow register permanently or at each update event (UEV), depending on the autoreload
preload enable bit (ARPE) in TIMx_CR1 register. The update event is sent when the counter
reaches the overflow (or underflow when down-counting) and if the UDIS bit equals 0 in the
TIMx_CR1 register. It can also be generated by software. The generation of the update
event is described in detail for each configuration.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3/TIM4/TIM5)
The counter is clocked by the prescaler output tim_cnt_ck, which is enabled only when the
counter enable bit (CEN) in TIMx_CR1 register is set (refer also to the slave mode controller
description to get more details on counter enabling).
Note that the actual counter enable signal CNT_EN is set one clock cycle after CEN.

Prescaler description
The prescaler can divide the counter clock frequency by any factor between 1 and 65536. It
is based on a 16-bit counter controlled through a 16-bit/32-bit register (in the TIMx_PSC
register). It can be changed on the fly as this control register is buffered. The new prescaler
ratio is taken into account at the next update event.
Figure 600 and Figure 601 give some examples of the counter behavior when the prescaler
ratio is changed on the fly:
Figure 600. Counter timing diagram with prescaler division change from 1 to 2
tim_psc_ck

CEN
tim_cnt_ck

Counter register

F7

F8

F9

FA FB FC

01

00

02

03

Update event (UEV)

Prescaler control register

0

1

Write a new value in TIMx_PSC
Prescaler buffer

0

Prescaler counter

0

1

0

1

0

1

0

1

0

1
MSv50998V1

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

