IC interrupt and/or DMA requests can be generated by software by setting the
corresponding CCxG bit in the TIMx_EGR register.
RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

55.4.8

General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3/TIM4/TIM5)

PWM input mode
This mode is used to measure both the period and the duty cycle of a PWM signal
connected to single tim_tix input:
•

The TIMx_CCR1 register holds the period value (interval between two consecutive
rising edges).

•

The TIM_CCR2 register holds the pulse width (interval between two consecutive rising
and falling edges).

This mode is a particular case of input capture mode. The set-up procedure is similar with
the following differences:
•

Two ICx signals are mapped on the same tim_tix input.

•

These two ICx signals are active on edges with opposite polarity.

•

One of the two TIxFP signals is selected as trigger input and the slave mode controller
is configured in reset mode.

The period and the pulse width of a PWM signal applied on tim_ti1 can be measured using
the following procedure:
1.

Select the proper tim_tix_in[15:0] source (internal or external) with the TI1SEL[3:0] bits
in the TIMx_TISEL register.

2.

Select the active input for TIMx_CCR1: write the CC1S bits to 01 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (tim_ti1 selected).

3.

Select the active polarity for tim_ti1fp1 (used both for capture in TIMx_CCR1 and
counter clear): write the CC1P to 0 and the CC1NP bit to 0 (active on rising edge).

4.

Select the active input for TIMx_CCR2: write the CC2S bits to 10 in the TIMx_CCMR1
register (tim_ti1 selected).

5.

Select the active polarity for tim_ti1fp2 (used for capture in TIMx_CCR2): write the
CC2P bit to 1 and the CC2NP bit to 0 (active on falling edge).

6.

Select the valid trigger input: write the TS bits to 00101 in the TIMx_SMCR register
(tim_ti1fp1 selected).

7.

Configure the slave mode controller in reset mode: write the SMS bits to 100 in the
TIMx_SMCR register.

8.

Enable the captures: write the CC1E and CC2E bits to 1 in the TIMx_CCER register.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

