RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3/TIM4/TIM5)

Bit 4 DIR: Direction
0: Counter used as upcounter
1: Counter used as downcounter
Note: This bit is read only when the timer is configured in Center-aligned mode or Encoder
mode.
Bit 3 OPM: One-pulse mode
0: Counter is not stopped at update event
1: Counter stops counting at the next update event (clearing the bit CEN)
Bit 2 URS: Update request source
This bit is set and cleared by software to select the UEV event sources.
0: Any of the following events generate an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.
These events can be:
- Counter overflow/underflow
- Setting the UG bit
- Update generation through the slave mode controller
1: Only counter overflow/underflow generates an update interrupt or DMA request if
enabled.
Bit 1 UDIS: Update disable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable UEV event generation.
0: UEV enabled. The Update (UEV) event is generated by one of the following events:
- Counter overflow/underflow
- Setting the UG bit
- Update generation through the slave mode controller
Buffered registers are then loaded with their preload values.
1: UEV disabled. The Update event is not generated, shadow registers keep their value
(ARR, PSC, CCRx). However the counter and the prescaler are reinitialized if the UG bit is
set or if a hardware reset is received from the slave mode controller.
Bit 0 CEN: Counter enable
0: Counter disabled
1: Counter enabled
Note: External clock, gated mode and encoder mode can work only if the CEN bit has been
previously set by software. However trigger mode can set the CEN bit automatically by
hardware.
CEN is cleared automatically in one-pulse mode, when an update event occurs.

55.5.2

TIMx control register 2 (TIMx_CR2)(x = 2 to 5)
Address offset: 0x004
Reset value: 0x0000 0000

31

30

29

28

27

26

25

24

23

22

21

20

19

18

17

16

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

MMS[3]

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

6

5

4

rw
15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

TI1S
rw

RM0456 Rev 6

MMS[2:0]
rw

rw

rw

3

2

1

0

CCDS

Res.

Res.

Res.

rw

<!-- pagebreak -->

2350

General-purpose timers (TIM2/TIM3/TIM4/TIM5)

RM0456

Bits 31:26 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 24:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 7 TI1S: tim_ti1 selection
0: The tim_ti1_in[15:0] multiplexer output is to tim_ti1 input
1: The tim_ti1_in[15:0], tim_ti2_in[15:0] and tim_ti3_in[15:0] multiplexers outputs are XORed
and connected to the tim_ti1 input. See also Section 54.3.29: Interfacing with Hall sensors.
Bits 25, 6, 5, 4 MMS[3:0]: Master mode selection
These bits are used to select the information to be sent in master mode to slave timers for
synchronization (tim_trgo). The combination is as follows:
0000: Reset - the UG bit from the TIMx_EGR register is used as trigger output (tim_trgo). If
the reset is generated by the trigger input (slave mode controller configured in reset
mode) then the signal on tim_trgo is delayed compared to the actual reset.
0001: Enable - the Counter enable signal, CNT_EN, is used as trigger output (tim_trgo). It is
useful to start several timers at the same time or to control a window in which a slave
timer is enabled. The Counter Enable signal is generated by a logic AND between
CEN control bit and the trigger input when configured in gated mode.
When the Counter Enable signal is controlled by the trigger input, there is a delay on
tim_trgo, except if the master/slave mode is selected (see the MSM bit description in
TIMx_SMCR register).
0010: Update - The update event is selected as trigger output (tim_trgo). For instance a
master timer can then be used as a prescaler for a slave timer.
0011: Compare Pulse - The trigger output send a positive pulse when the CC1IF flag is to
be set (even if it was already high), as soon as a capture or a compare match
occurred (tim_trgo).
0100: Compare - tim_oc1refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
0101: Compare - tim_oc2refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
0110: Compare - tim_oc3refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
0111: Compare - tim_oc4refc signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo)
1000: Encoder clock output - The encoder clock signal is used as trigger output (tim_trgo).
This code is valid for the following SMS[3:0] values: 0001, 0010, 0011, 1010, 1011,
1100, 1101, 1110, 1111. Any other SMS[3:0] code is not allowed and may lead to
unexpected behavior.
Others: Reserved
Note: The clock of the slave timer or ADC must be enabled prior to receive events from the
master timer, and must not be changed on-the-fly while triggers are received from the
master timer.
Bit 3 CCDS: Capture/compare DMA selection
0: CCx DMA request sent when CCx event occurs
1: CCx DMA requests sent when update event occurs
Bits 2:0 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.

<!-- pagebreak -->

