2474

Basic timers (TIM6/TIM7)

57.3.3

RM0456

TIM6/TIM7 clocks
The timer bus interface is clocked by the tim_pclk APB clock.
The counter clock tim_ker_ck is connected to the tim_pclk input.
The CEN (in the TIMx_CR1 register) and UG bits (in the TIMx_EGR register) are actual
control bits and can be changed only by software (except for UG that remains cleared
automatically). As soon as the CEN bit is written to 1, the prescaler is clocked by the internal
clock tim_ker_ck.
Figure 723 shows the behavior of the control circuit and the upcounter in normal mode,
without prescaler.
Figure 723. Control circuit in normal mode, internal clock divided by 1
tim_ker_ck

CEN

UG
counter initialization
(internal)

tim_cnt_ck, tim_psc_ck

Counter register

32

31

33

34

35 36

00 01

02

03 04 05

06

07

MSv62317V2

57.3.4

Time-base unit
The main block of the programmable timer is a 16-bit upcounter with its related autoreload
register. The counter clock can be divided by a prescaler.
The counter, the autoreload register and the prescaler register can be written or read by
software. This is true even when the counter is running.
The time-base unit includes:
•

Counter register (TIMx_CNT)

•

Prescaler register (TIMx_PSC)

•

Auto-Reload register (TIMx_ARR).

The autoreload register is preloaded. The preload register is accessed each time an attempt
is made to write or read the autoreload register. The contents of the preload register are
transferred into the shadow register permanently or at each update event UEV, depending
on the autoreload preload enable bit (ARPE) in the TIMx_CR1 register. The update event is
sent when the counter reaches the overflow value and if the UDIS bit equals 0 in the
TIMx_CR1 register. It can also be generated by software. The generation of the update
event is described in detail for each configuration.

<!-- pagebreak -->

