Interrupt event Event flag

Update

UIF

Enable
control bit

Interrupt
clear method

Exit from
Sleep
mode

Exit from
Stop and
Standby
mode

UIE

write 0 in UIF

Yes

No

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Basic timers (TIM6/TIM7)

57.4

TIM6/TIM7 registers
Refer to Section 1.2 for a list of abbreviations used in register descriptions.
The peripheral registers can be accessed by half-words (16-bit) or words (32-bit).

57.4.1

TIMx control register 1 (TIMx_CR1)(x = 6 to 7)
Address offset: 0x00
Reset value: 0x0000

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

Res.

Res.

Res.

DITH
EN

UIFRE
MAP

Res.

Res.

Res.

ARPE

Res.

Res.

Res.

OPM

URS

UDIS

CEN

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

Bits 15:13 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 12 DITHEN: Dithering enable
0: Dithering disabled
1: Dithering enabled
Note: The DITHEN bit can only be modified when CEN bit is reset.
Bit 11 UIFREMAP: UIF status bit remapping
0: No remapping. UIF status bit is not copied to TIMx_CNT register bit 31.
1: Remapping enabled. UIF status bit is copied to TIMx_CNT register bit 31.
Bits 10:8 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 7 ARPE: Auto-reload preload enable
0: TIMx_ARR register is not buffered.
1: TIMx_ARR register is buffered.
Bits 6:4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 3 OPM: One-pulse mode
0: Counter is not stopped at update event
1: Counter stops counting at the next update event (clearing the CEN bit).

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

2474

Basic timers (TIM6/TIM7)

RM0456

Bit 2 URS: Update request source
This bit is set and cleared by software to select the UEV event sources.
0: Any of the following events generates an update interrupt or DMA request if enabled.
These events can be:
- Counter overflow/underflow
- Setting the UG bit
- Update generation through the slave mode controller
1: Only counter overflow/underflow generates an update interrupt or DMA request if
enabled.
Bit 1 UDIS: Update disable
This bit is set and cleared by software to enable/disable UEV event generation.
0: UEV enabled. The Update (UEV) event is generated by one of the following events:
- Counter overflow/underflow
- Setting the UG bit
- Update generation through the slave mode controller
Buffered registers are then loaded with their preload values.
1: UEV disabled. The Update event is not generated, shadow registers keep their value
(ARR, PSC). However the counter and the prescaler are reinitialized if the UG bit is set or if
a hardware reset is received from the slave mode controller.
Bit 0 CEN: Counter enable
0: Counter disabled
1: Counter enabled
CEN is cleared automatically in one-pulse mode, when an update event occurs.

<!-- pagebreak -->

