RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Real-time clock (RTC)
However, this measurement error can be eliminated if the measurement period is the same
length as the calibration cycle period. In this case, the only error observed is the error due to
the resolution of the digital calibration.
•

By default, the calibration cycle period is 32 seconds.
Using this mode and measuring the accuracy of the 1 Hz output over exactly
32 seconds guarantees that the measure is within 0.477 ppm (0.5 RTCCLK cycles over
32 seconds, due to the limitation of the calibration resolution).

•

CALW16 bit of the RTC_CALR register can be set to 1 to force a 16- second calibration
cycle period.
In this case, the RTC precision can be measured during 16 seconds with a maximum
error of 0.954 ppm (0.5 RTCCLK cycles over 16 seconds). However, since the
calibration resolution is reduced, the long term RTC precision is also reduced to
0.954 ppm: CALM[0] bit is stuck at 0 when CALW16 is set to 1.

•

CALW8 bit of the RTC_CALR register can be set to 1 to force a 8-second calibration
cycle period.
In this case, the RTC precision can be measured during 8 seconds with a maximum
error of 1.907 ppm (0.5 RTCCLK cycles over 8 s). The long term RTC precision is also
reduced to 1.907 ppm: CALM[1:0] bits are stuck at 00 when CALW8 is set to 1.

Re-calibration on-the-fly
The calibration register (RTC_CALR) can be updated on-the-fly while RTC_ICSR/INITF = 0,
by using the follow process:

63.3.17

1.

Poll the RTC_ICSR/RECALPF (re-calibration pending flag).

2.

If it is set to 0, write a new value to RTC_CALR, if necessary. RECALPF is then
automatically set to 1

3.

Within three ck_apre cycles after the write operation to RTC_CALR, the new calibration
settings take effect.

Timestamp function
Timestamp is enabled by setting the TSE or ITSE bits of RTC_CR register to 1.
When TSE is set:
The calendar is saved in the timestamp registers (RTC_TSSSR, RTC_TSTR, RTC_TSDR)
when a timestamp event is detected on the RTC_TS pin.
When TAMPTS is set:
The calendar is saved in the timestamp registers (RTC_TSSSR, RTC_TSTR, RTC_TSDR)
when an internal or external tamper event is detected. Refer to RTC control register
(RTC_CR) and refer to Section : Timestamp on tamper event.
When ITSE is set:
The calendar is saved in the timestamp registers (RTC_TSSSR, RTC_TSTR, RTC_TSDR)
when an internal timestamp event is detected. The internal timestamp event is generated by
the switch to the VBAT supply.
When a timestamp event occurs, due to internal or external event, the timestamp flag bit
(TSF) in RTC_SR register is set. In case the event is internal, the ITSF flag is also set in
RTC_SR register.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

