3020

Serial audio interface (SAI)

RM0456

Bit 12 MONO: Mono mode
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only when the number of slots is equal to 2.
When the mono mode is selected, slot 0 data are duplicated on slot 1 when the audio block operates
as a transmitter. In reception mode, the slot1 is discarded and only the data received from slot 0 are
stored. Refer to Section : Mono/stereo mode for more details.
0: Stereo mode
1: Mono mode.
Bits 11:10 SYNCEN[1:0]: Synchronization enable
These bits are set and cleared by software. They must be configured when the audio subblock is
disabled.
00: audio subblock in asynchronous mode.
01: audio subblock is synchronous with the other internal audio subblock. In this case, the audio
subblock must be configured in slave mode
10: audio subblock is synchronous with an external SAI embedded peripheral. In this case the audio
subblock must be configured in Slave mode.
11: Reserved
Note: The audio subblock must be configured as asynchronous when SPDIF mode is enabled.
Bit 9 CKSTR: Clock strobing edge
This bit is set and cleared by software. It must be configured when the audio block is disabled. This
bit has no meaning in SPDIF audio protocol.
0: Signals generated by the SAI change on SCK rising edge, while signals received by the SAI are
sampled on the SCK falling edge.
1: Signals generated by the SAI change on SCK falling edge, while signals received by the SAI are
sampled on the SCK rising edge.
Bit 8 LSBFIRST: Least significant bit first
This bit is set and cleared by software. It must be configured when the audio block is disabled. This
bit has no meaning in AC’97 audio protocol since AC’97 data are always transferred with the MSB
first. This bit has no meaning in SPDIF audio protocol since in SPDIF data are always transferred
with LSB first.
0: Data are transferred with MSB first
1: Data are transferred with LSB first
Bits 7:5 DS[2:0]: Data size
These bits are set and cleared by software. These bits are ignored when the SPDIF protocols are
selected (bit PRTCFG[1:0]), because the frame and the data size are fixed in such case. When the
companding mode is selected through COMP[1:0] bits, DS[1:0] are ignored since the data size is
fixed to 8 bits by the algorithm.
These bits must be configured when the audio block is disabled.
000: Reserved
001: Reserved
010: 8 bits
011: 10 bits
100: 16 bits
101: 20 bits
110: 24 bits
111: 32 bits
Bit 4 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Serial audio interface (SAI)

Bits 3:2 PRTCFG[1:0]: Protocol configuration
These bits are set and cleared by software. These bits have to be configured when the audio block is
disabled.
00: Free protocol. Free protocol enables to use the powerful configuration of the audio block to
address a specific audio protocol (such as I2S, LSB/MSB justified, TDM, PCM/DSP...) by setting
most of the configuration register bits as well as frame configuration register.
01: SPDIF protocol
10: AC’97 protocol
11: Reserved
Bits 1:0 MODE[1:0]: SAIx audio block mode
These bits are set and cleared by software. They must be configured when SAIx audio block is
disabled.
00: Master transmitter
01: Master receiver
10: Slave transmitter
11: Slave receiver
Note: When the audio block is configured in SPDIF mode, the master transmitter mode is forced
(MODE[1:0] = 00).

69.6.3

SAI configuration register 2 (SAI_ACR2)
Address offset: 0x08
Reset value: 0x0000 0000

31

30

29

28

27

26

25

24

23

22

21

20

19

18

17

16

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

COMP[1:0]

CPL

MUTE
VAL

MUTE

TRIS

F
FLUSH

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

w

rw

MUTECNT[5:0]
rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

FTH[2:0]
rw

rw

rw

Bits 31:16 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 15:14 COMP[1:0]: Companding mode.
These bits are set and cleared by software. The µ-Law and the A-Law log are a part of the CCITT
G.711 recommendation, the type of complement that is used depends on CPL bit.
The data expansion or data compression are determined by the state of bit MODE[0].
The data compression is applied if the audio block is configured as a transmitter.
The data expansion is automatically applied when the audio block is configured as a receiver.
Refer to Section : Companding mode for more details.
00: No companding algorithm
01: Reserved.
10: µ-Law algorithm
11: A-Law algorithm
Note: Companding mode is applicable only when Free protocol mode is selected.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

3020

Serial audio interface (SAI)

RM0456

Bit 13 CPL: Complement bit.
This bit is set and cleared by software.
It defines the type of complement to be used for companding mode
0: 1’s complement representation.
1: 2’s complement representation.
Note: This bit has effect only when the companding mode is µ-Law algorithm or A-Law algorithm.
Bits 12:7 MUTECNT[5:0]: Mute counter.
These bits are set and cleared by software. They are used only in reception mode.
The value set in these bits is compared to the number of consecutive mute frames detected in
reception. When the number of mute frames is equal to this value, the flag MUTEDET is set and an
interrupt is generated if bit MUTEDETIE is set.
Refer to Section : Mute mode for more details.
Bit 6 MUTEVAL: Mute value.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only when the audio block operates as a
transmitter, the number of slots is lower or equal to 2 and the MUTE bit is set.
If more slots are declared, the bit value sent during the transmission in mute mode is equal to 0,
whatever the value of MUTEVAL.
if the number of slot is lower or equal to 2 and MUTEVAL = 1, the MUTE value transmitted for each
slot is the one sent during the previous frame.
Refer to Section : Mute mode for more details.
0: Bit value 0 is sent during the mute mode.
1: Last values are sent during the mute mode.
Note: This bit is meaningless and must not be used for SPDIF audio blocks.
Bit 5 MUTE: Mute.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only when the audio block operates as a
transmitter. The MUTE value is linked to value of MUTEVAL if the number of slots is lower or equal to
2, or equal to 0 if it is greater than 2.
Refer to Section : Mute mode for more details.
0: No mute mode.
1: Mute mode enabled.
Note: This bit is meaningless and must not be used for SPDIF audio blocks.
Bit 4 TRIS: Tristate management on data line.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningful only if the audio block is configured as a
transmitter. This bit is not used when the audio block is configured in SPDIF mode. It must be
configured when SAI is disabled.
Refer to Section : Output data line management on an inactive slot for more details.
0: SD output line is still driven by the SAI when a slot is inactive.
1: SD output line is released (HI-Z) at the end of the last data bit of the last active slot if the next one
is inactive.
Bit 3 FFLUSH: FIFO flush.
This bit is set by software. It is always read as 0. This bit must be configured when the SAI is
disabled.
0: No FIFO flush.
1: FIFO flush. Programming this bit to 1 triggers the FIFO Flush. All the internal FIFO pointers (read
and write) are cleared. In this case data still present in the FIFO are lost (no more transmission or
received data lost). Before flushing, SAI DMA stream/interrupt must be disabled

<!-- pagebreak -->

RM0456 Rev 6

RM0456

Serial audio interface (SAI)

Bits 2:0 FTH[2:0]: FIFO threshold.
This bit is set and cleared by software.
000: FIFO empty
001: ¼ FIFO
010: ½ FIFO
011: ¾ FIFO
100: FIFO full
101: Reserved
110: Reserved
111: Reserved

69.6.4

SAI frame configuration register (SAI_AFRCR)
Address offset: 0x0C
Reset value: 0x0000 0007

Note:

This register has no meaning in AC’97 and SPDIF audio protocol.

31

30

29

28

27

26

25

24

23

22

21

20

19

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

Res.

FSALL[6:0]
rw

18

17

16

FSOFF FSPOL FSDEF
rw

rw

r

2

1

0

rw

rw

rw

FRL[7:0]
rw

Bits 31:19 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bit 18 FSOFF: Frame synchronization offset.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is meaningless and is not used in AC’97 or SPDIF audio
block configuration. This bit must be configured when the audio block is disabled.
0: FS is asserted on the first bit of the slot 0.
1: FS is asserted one bit before the first bit of the slot 0.
Bit 17 FSPOL: Frame synchronization polarity.
This bit is set and cleared by software. It is used to configure the level of the start of frame on the FS
signal. It is meaningless and is not used in AC’97 or SPDIF audio block configuration.
This bit must be configured when the audio block is disabled.
0: FS is active low (falling edge)
1: FS is active high (rising edge)
Bit 16 FSDEF: Frame synchronization definition.
This bit is set and cleared by software.
0: FS signal is a start frame signal
1: FS signal is a start of frame signal + channel side identification
When the bit is set, the number of slots defined in the SAI_xSLOTR register has to be even. It
means that half of this number of slots are dedicated to the left channel and the other slots for the
right channel (e.g: this bit has to be set for I2S or MSB/LSB-justified protocols...).
This bit is meaningless and is not used in AC’97 or SPDIF audio block configuration. It must be
configured when the audio block is disabled.
Bit 15 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.

RM0456 Rev 6

<!-- pagebreak -->

3020

Serial audio interface (SAI)

RM0456

Bits 14:8 FSALL[6:0]: Frame synchronization active level length.
These bits are set and cleared by software. They specify the length in number of bit clock
(SCK) + 1 (FSALL[6:0] + 1) of the active level of the FS signal in the audio frame
These bits are meaningless and are not used in AC’97 or SPDIF audio block configuration.
They must be configured when the audio block is disabled.
Bits 7:0 FRL[7:0]: Frame length.
These bits are set and cleared by software. They define the audio frame length expressed in number
of SCK clock cycles: the number of bits in the frame is equal to FRL[7:0] + 1.
The minimum number of bits to transfer in an audio frame must be equal to 8, otherwise the audio
block behaves in an unexpected way. This is the case when the data size is 8 bits and only one slot
0 is defined in NBSLOT[4:0] of SAI_xSLOTR register (NBSLOT[3:0] = 0000).
In master mode, if the master clock (available on MCLK_x pin) is used, the frame length must be
aligned with a number equal to a power of 2, ranging from 8 to 256. When the master clock is not
used (NODIV = 1), it is recommended to program the frame length to an value ranging from 8 to 256.
These bits are meaningless and are not used in AC’97 or SPDIF audio block configuration. They
must be configured when the audio block is disabled.

69.6.5

SAI slot register (SAI_ASLOTR)
Address offset: 0x10
Reset value: 0x0000 0000

Note:

This register has no meaning in AC’97 and SPDIF audio protocol.

31

30

29

28

27

26

25

24

23

22

21

20

19

18

17

16

SLOTEN[15:0]
rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

rw

15

14

13

12

11

10

9

8

7

6

5

4

3

2

1

0

Res.

Res.

Res.

Res.

rw

rw

NBSLOT[3:0]
rw

rw

rw

SLOTSZ[1:0]
rw

rw

rw

Res.

FBOFF[4:0]
rw

rw

rw

Bits 31:16 SLOTEN[15:0]: Slot enable.
These bits are set and cleared by software.
Each SLOTEN bit corresponds to a slot position from 0 to 15 (maximum 16 slots).
0: Inactive slot.
1: Active slot.
The slot must be enabled when the audio block is disabled.
They are ignored in AC’97 or SPDIF mode.
Bits 15:12 Reserved, must be kept at reset value.
Bits 11:8 NBSLOT[3:0]: Number of slots in an audio frame.
These bits are set and cleared by software.
The value set in this bitfield represents the number of slots + 1 in the audio frame (including the
number of inactive slots). The maximum number of slots is 16.
The number of slots must be even if FSDEF bit in the SAI_xFRCR register is set.
The number of slots must be configured when the audio block is disabled.
They are ignored in AC’97 or SPDIF mode.

<!-- pagebreak -->

